0
IVUS-Net: An Intravascular Ultrasound Segmentation Network
2018-06-10
IntraVascular UltraSound (IVUS) is one of the most effective imaging
modalities that provides assistance to experts in order to diagnose and treat
cardiovascular diseases. We address a central problem in IVUS image analysis
with Fully Convolutional Network (FCN): automatically delineate the lumen and
media-adventitia borders in IVUS images, which is crucial to shorten the
diagnosis process or benefits a faster and more accurate 3D reconstruction of
the artery. Particularly, we propose an FCN architecture, called IVUS-Net,
followed by a post-processing contour extraction step, in order to
automatically segments the interior (lumen) and exterior (media-adventitia)
regions of the human arteries. We evaluated our IVUS-Net on the test set of a
standard publicly available dataset containing 326 IVUS B-mode images with two
measurements, namely Jaccard Measure (JM) and Hausdorff Distances (HD). The
evaluation result shows that IVUS-Net outperforms the state-of-the-art lumen
and media segmentation methods by 4% to 20% in terms of HD distance. IVUS-Net
performs well on images in the test set that contain a significant amount of
major artifacts such as bifurcations, shadows, and side branches that are not
common in the training set. Furthermore, using a modern GPU, IVUS-Net segments
each IVUS frame only in 0.15 seconds. The proposed work, to the best of our
knowledge, is the first deep learning based method for segmentation of both the
lumen and the media vessel walls in 20 MHz IVUS B-mode images that achieves the
best results without any manual intervention. Code is available at
https://github.com/Kulbear/ivus-segmentation-icsm2018

5
Predicting the Next Best View for 3D Mesh Refinement
2018-05-16
3D reconstruction is a core task in many applications such as robot
navigation or sites inspections. Finding the best poses to capture part of the
scene is one of the most challenging topic that goes under the name of Next
Best View. Recently, many volumetric methods have been proposed; they choose
the Next Best View by reasoning over a 3D voxelized space and by finding which
pose minimizes the uncertainty decoded into the voxels. Such methods are
effective, but they do not scale well since the underlaying representation
requires a huge amount of memory. In this paper we propose a novel mesh-based
approach which focuses on the worst reconstructed region of the environment
mesh. We define a photo-consistent index to evaluate the 3D mesh accuracy, and
an energy function over the worst regions of the mesh which takes into account
the mutual parallax with respect to the previous cameras, the angle of
incidence of the viewing ray to the surface and the visibility of the region.
We test our approach over a well known dataset and achieve state-of-the-art
results.

16
Pix3D: Dataset and Methods for Single-Image 3D Shape Modeling
2018-04-12
We study 3D shape modeling from a single image and make contributions to it
in three aspects. First, we present Pix3D, a large-scale benchmark of diverse
image-shape pairs with pixel-level 2D-3D alignment. Pix3D has wide applications
in shape-related tasks including reconstruction, retrieval, viewpoint
estimation, etc. Building such a large-scale dataset, however, is highly
challenging; existing datasets either contain only synthetic data, or lack
precise alignment between 2D images and 3D shapes, or only have a small number
of images. Second, we calibrate the evaluation criteria for 3D shape
reconstruction through behavioral studies, and use them to objectively and
systematically benchmark cutting-edge reconstruction algorithms on Pix3D.
Third, we design a novel model that simultaneously performs 3D reconstruction
and pose estimation; our multi-task learning approach achieves state-of-the-art
performance on both tasks.

18
3D Fluid Flow Estimation with Integrated Particle Reconstruction
2018-04-09
The standard approach to densely reconstruct the motion in a volume of fluid is to inject high-contrast tracer particles and record their motion with multiple high-speed cameras. Almost all existing work processes the acquired multi-view video in two separate steps, utilizing either a pure Eulerian or pure Lagrangian approach. Eulerian methods perform a voxel-based reconstruction of particles per time step, followed by 3D motion estimation, with some form of dense matching between the precomputed voxel grids from different time steps. In this sequential procedure, the first step cannot use temporal consistency considerations to support the reconstruction, while the second step has no access to the original, high-resolution image data. Alternatively, Lagrangian methods reconstruct an explicit, sparse set of particles and track the individual particles over time. Physical constraints can only be incorporated in a post-processing step when interpolating the particle tracks to a dense motion field. We show, for the first time, how to jointly reconstruct both the individual tracer particles and a dense 3D fluid motion field from the image data, using an integrated energy minimization. Our hybrid Lagrangian/Eulerian model reconstructs individual particles, and at the same time recovers a dense 3D motion field in the entire domain. Making particles explicit greatly reduces the memory consumption and allows one to use the high-res input images for matching. Whereas the dense motion field makes it possible to include physical a-priori constraints and account for the incompressibility and viscosity of the fluid. The method exhibits greatly (~70%) improved results over our recently published baseline with two separate steps for 3D reconstruction and motion estimation. Our results with only two time steps are comparable to those of sota tracking-based methods that require much longer sequences.

21
Learning Free-Form Deformations for 3D Object Reconstruction
2018-03-29
Representing 3D shape in deep learning frameworks in an accurate, efficient
and compact manner still remains an open challenge. Most existing work
addresses this issue by employing voxel-based representations. While these
approaches benefit greatly from advances in computer vision by generalizing 2D
convolutions to the 3D setting, they also have several considerable drawbacks.
The computational complexity of voxel-encodings grows cubically with the
resolution thus limiting such representations to low-resolution 3D
reconstruction. In an attempt to solve this problem, point cloud
representations have been proposed. Although point clouds are more efficient
than voxel representations as they only cover surfaces rather than volumes,
they do not encode detailed geometric information about relationships between
points. In this paper we propose a method to learn free-form deformations (FFD)
for the task of 3D reconstruction from a single image. By learning to deform
points sampled from a high-quality mesh, our trained model can be used to
produce arbitrarily dense point clouds or meshes with fine-grained geometry. We
evaluate our proposed framework on both synthetic and real-world data and
achieve state-of-the-art results on point-cloud and volumetric metrics.
Additionally, we qualitatively demonstrate its applicability to label
transferring for 3D semantic segmentation.

23
Learning to Reconstruct Texture-less Deformable Surfaces from a Single View
2018-03-23
Recent years have seen the development of mature solutions for reconstructing
deformable surfaces from a single image, provided that they are relatively
well-textured. By contrast, recovering the 3D shape of texture-less surfaces
remains an open problem, and essentially relates to Shape-from-Shading. In this
paper, we introduce a data-driven approach to this problem. We introduce a
general framework that can predict diverse 3D representations, such as meshes,
normals, and depth maps. Our experiments show that meshes are ill-suited to
handle texture-less 3D reconstruction in our context. Furthermore, we
demonstrate that our approach generalizes well to unseen objects, and that it
yields higher-quality reconstructions than a state-of-the-art SfS technique,
particularly in terms of normal estimates. Our reconstructions accurately model
the fine details of the surfaces, such as the creases of a T-Shirt worn by a
person.

39
Domain-Specific Face Synthesis for Video Face Recognition from a Single Sample Per Person
2018-01-06
The performance of still-to-video FR systems can decline significantly
because faces captured in unconstrained operational domain (OD) over multiple
video cameras have a different underlying data distribution compared to faces
captured under controlled conditions in the enrollment domain (ED) with a still
camera. This is particularly true when individuals are enrolled to the system
using a single reference still. To improve the robustness of these systems, it
is possible to augment the reference set by generating synthetic faces based on
the original still. However, without knowledge of the OD, many synthetic images
must be generated to account for all possible capture conditions. FR systems
may, therefore, require complex implementations and yield lower accuracy when
training on many less relevant images. This paper introduces an algorithm for
domain-specific face synthesis (DSFS) that exploits the representative
intra-class variation information available from the OD. Prior to operation, a
compact set of faces from unknown persons appearing in the OD is selected
through clustering in the captured condition space. The domain-specific
variations of these face images are projected onto the reference stills by
integrating an image-based face relighting technique inside the 3D
reconstruction framework. A compact set of synthetic faces is generated that
resemble individuals of interest under the capture conditions relevant to the
OD. In a particular implementation based on sparse representation
classification, the synthetic faces generated with the DSFS are employed to
form a cross-domain dictionary that account for structured sparsity.
Experimental results reveal that augmenting the reference gallery set of FR
systems using the proposed DSFS approach can provide a higher level of accuracy
compared to state-of-the-art approaches, with only a moderate increase in its
computational complexity.

165
G2D: from GTA to Data
2018-06-16
This document describes G2D, a software that enables capturing videos from
Grand Theft Auto V (GTA V), a popular role playing game set in an expansive
virtual city. The target users of our software are computer vision researchers
who wish to collect hyper-realistic computer-generated imagery of a city from
the street level, under controlled 6DOF camera poses and varying environmental
conditions (weather, season, time of day, traffic density, etc.).
  G2D accesses/calls the native functions of the game; hence users can directly
interact with G2D while playing the game. Specifically, G2D enables users to
manipulate conditions of the virtual environment on the fly, while the gameplay
camera is set to automatically retrace a predetermined 6DOF camera pose
trajectory within the game coordinate system. Concurrently, automatic screen
capture is executed while the virtual environment is being explored. G2D and
its source code are publicly available at https://goo.gl/SS7fS6
  In addition, we demonstrate an application of G2D to generate a large-scale
dataset with groundtruth camera poses for testing structure-from-motion (SfM)
algorithms. The dataset and generated 3D point clouds are also made available
at https://goo.gl/DNzxHx

170
GeoDesc: Learning Local Descriptors by Integrating Geometry Constraints
2018-07-17
Learned local descriptors based on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have
achieved significant improvements on patch-based benchmarks, whereas not having
demonstrated strong generalization ability on recent benchmarks of image-based
3D reconstruction. In this paper, we mitigate this limitation by proposing a
novel local descriptor learning approach that integrates geometry constraints
from multi-view reconstructions, which benefits the learning process in terms
of data generation, data sampling and loss computation. We refer to the
proposed descriptor as GeoDesc, and demonstrate its superior performance on
various large-scale benchmarks, and in particular show its great success on
challenging reconstruction tasks. Moreover, we provide guidelines towards
practical integration of learned descriptors in Structure-from-Motion (SfM)
pipelines, showing the good trade-off that GeoDesc delivers to 3D
reconstruction tasks between accuracy and efficiency.

171
Semi-Dense 3D Reconstruction with a Stereo Event Camera
2018-07-19
Event cameras are bio-inspired sensors that offer several advantages, such as
low latency, high-speed and high dynamic range, to tackle challenging scenarios
in computer vision. This paper presents a solution to the problem of 3D
reconstruction from data captured by a stereo event-camera rig moving in a
static scene, such as in the context of stereo Simultaneous Localization and
Mapping. The proposed method consists of the optimization of an energy function
designed to exploit small-baseline spatio-temporal consistency of events
triggered across both stereo image planes. To improve the density of the
reconstruction and to reduce the uncertainty of the estimation, a probabilistic
depth-fusion strategy is also developed. The resulting method has no special
requirements on either the motion of the stereo event-camera rig or on prior
knowledge about the scene. Experiments demonstrate our method can deal with
both texture-rich scenes as well as sparse scenes, outperforming
state-of-the-art stereo methods based on event data image representations.

173
3D-LMNet: Latent Embedding Matching for Accurate and Diverse 3D Point Cloud Reconstruction from a Single Image
2018-07-20
3D reconstruction from single view images is an ill-posed problem. Inferring
the hidden regions from self-occluded images is both challenging and ambiguous.
We propose a two-pronged approach to address these issues. To better
incorporate the data prior and generate meaningful reconstructions, we propose
3D-LMNet, a latent embedding matching approach for 3D reconstruction. We first
train a 3D point cloud auto-encoder and then learn a mapping from the 2D image
to the corresponding learnt embedding. To tackle the issue of uncertainty in
the reconstruction, we predict multiple reconstructions that are consistent
with the input view. This is achieved by learning a probablistic latent space
with a novel view-specific diversity loss. Thorough quantitative and
qualitative analysis is performed to highlight the significance of the proposed
approach. We outperform state-of-the-art approaches on the task of single-view
3D reconstruction on both real and synthetic datasets while generating multiple
plausible reconstructions, demonstrating the generalizability and utility of
our approach.

175
The Double Sphere Camera Model
2018-07-24
Vision-based motion estimation and 3D reconstruction, which have numerous
applications (e.g., autonomous driving, navigation systems for airborne devices
and augmented reality) are receiving significant research attention. To
increase the accuracy and robustness, several researchers have recently
demonstrated the benefit of using large field-of-view cameras for such
applications. In this paper, we provide an extensive review of existing models
for large field-of-view cameras. For each model we provide projection and
unprojection functions and the subspace of points that result in valid
projection. Then, we propose the Double Sphere camera model that well fits with
large field-of-view lenses, is computationally inexpensive and has a
closed-form inverse. We evaluate the model using a calibration dataset with
several different lenses and compare the models using the metrics that are
relevant for Visual Odometry, i.e., reprojection error, as well as computation
time for projection and unprojection functions and their Jacobians. We also
provide qualitative results and discuss the performance of all models.

176
From handcrafted to deep local features
2018-07-26
This paper presents an overview of the evolution of local features from handcrafted to deep-learning-based methods, followed by a discussion of several benchmarks and papers evaluating such local features. Our investigations are motivated by 3D reconstruction problems, where the precise location of the features is important. As we describe these methods, we highlight and explain the challenges of feature extraction and potential ways to overcome them. We first present handcrafted methods, followed by methods based on classical machine learning and finally we discuss methods based on deep-learning. This largely chronologically-ordered presentation will help the reader to fully understand the topic of image and region description in order to make best use of it in modern computer vision applications. In particular, understanding handcrafted methods and their motivation can help to understand modern approaches and how machine learning is used to improve the results. We also provide references to most of the relevant literature and code.

177
Geo-Supervised Visual Depth Prediction
2018-07-30
We propose using global orientation from inertial measurements, and the bias it induces on the shape of objects populating the scene, to inform visual 3D reconstruction. We test the effect of using the resulting prior in depth prediction from a single image, where the normal vectors to surfaces of objects of certain classes tend to align with gravity or be orthogonal to it. Adding such a prior to baseline methods for monocular depth prediction yields improvements beyond the state-of-the-art and illustrates the power of gravity as a supervisory signal.

179
Robust Attentional Aggregation of Deep Feature Sets for Multi-view 3D Reconstruction
2018-08-02
We study the problem of recovering an underlying 3D shape from a set of images. Existing learning based approaches usually resort to recurrent neural nets, e.g., GRU, or intuitive pooling operations, e.g., max/mean poolings, to fuse multiple deep features encoded from input images. However, GRU based approaches are unable to consistently estimate 3D shapes given different permutations of the same set of input images as the recurrent unit is permutation variant. It is also unlikely to refine the 3D shape given more images due to the long-term memory loss of GRU. Commonly used pooling approaches are limited to capturing partial information, e.g., max/mean values, ignoring other valuable features. In this paper, we present a new feed-forward neural module, named AttSets, together with a dedicated training algorithm, named FASet, to attentively aggregate an arbitrarily sized deep feature set for multi-view 3D reconstruction. The AttSets module is permutation invariant, computationally efficient and flexible to implement, while the FASet algorithm enables the AttSets based network to be remarkably robust and generalize to an arbitrary number of input images. We thoroughly evaluate FASet and the properties of AttSets on multiple large public datasets. Extensive experiments show that AttSets together with FASet algorithm significantly outperforms existing aggregation approaches.

185
Deep Depth from Defocus: how can defocus blur improve 3D estimation using dense neural networks?
2018-09-05
Depth estimation is of critical interest for scene understanding and accurate
3D reconstruction. Most recent approaches in depth estimation with deep
learning exploit geometrical structures of standard sharp images to predict
corresponding depth maps. However, cameras can also produce images with defocus
blur depending on the depth of the objects and camera settings. Hence, these
features may represent an important hint for learning to predict depth. In this
paper, we propose a full system for single-image depth prediction in the wild
using depth-from-defocus and neural networks. We carry out thorough experiments
to test deep convolutional networks on real and simulated defocused images
using a realistic model of blur variation with respect to depth. We also
investigate the influence of blur on depth prediction observing model
uncertainty with a Bayesian neural network approach. From these studies, we
show that out-of-focus blur greatly improves the depth-prediction network
performances. Furthermore, we transfer the ability learned on a synthetic,
indoor dataset to real, indoor and outdoor images. For this purpose, we present
a new dataset containing real all-focus and defocused images from a Digital
Single-Lens Reflex (DSLR) camera, paired with ground truth depth maps obtained
with an active 3D sensor for indoor scenes. The proposed approach is
successfully validated on both this new dataset and standard ones as NYUv2 or
Depth-in-the-Wild. Code and new datasets are available at
https://github.com/marcelampc/d3net_depth_estimation

186
Hubless keypoint-based 3D deformable groupwise registration
2018-09-11
We present a novel algorithm for Fast Registration Of image Groups (FROG), applied to large 3D image groups. Our approach extracts 3D SURF keypoints from images, computes matched pairs of keypoints and registers the group by minimizing pair distances in a hubless way i.e. without computing any central mean image. Using keypoints significantly reduces the problem complexity compared to voxel-based approaches, and enables us to provide an in-core global optimization, similar to the Bundle Adjustment for 3D reconstruction. As we aim to register images of different patients, the matching step yields many outliers. Then we propose a new EM-weighting algorithm which efficiently discards outliers. Global optimization is carried out with a fast gradient descent algorithm. This allows our approach to robustly register large datasets. The result is a set of diffeomorphic half transforms which link the volumes together and can be subsequently exploited for computational anatomy and landmark detection. We show experimental results on whole-body CT scans, with groups of up to 103 volumes. On a benchmark based on anatomical landmarks, our algorithm compares favorably with the star-groupwise voxel-based ANTs and NiftyReg approaches while being much faster. We also discuss the limitations of our approach for lower resolution images such as brain MRI.

187
Do-It-Yourself Single Camera 3D Pointer Input Device
2018-09-12
We present a new algorithm for single camera 3D reconstruction, or 3D input
for human-computer interfaces, based on precise tracking of an elongated
object, such as a pen, having a pattern of colored bands. To configure the
system, the user provides no more than one labelled image of a handmade
pointer, measurements of its colored bands, and the camera's pinhole projection
matrix. Other systems are of much higher cost and complexity, requiring
combinations of multiple cameras, stereocameras, and pointers with sensors and
lights. Instead of relying on information from multiple devices, we examine our
single view more closely, integrating geometric and appearance constraints to
robustly track the pointer in the presence of occlusion and distractor objects.
By probing objects of known geometry with the pointer, we demonstrate
acceptable accuracy of 3D localization.

195
Semantic Stereo for Incidental Satellite Images
2018-11-21
The increasingly common use of incidental satellite images for stereo
reconstruction versus rigidly tasked binocular or trinocular coincident
collection is helping to enable timely global-scale 3D mapping; however,
reliable stereo correspondence from multi-date image pairs remains very
challenging due to seasonal appearance differences and scene change. Promising
recent work suggests that semantic scene segmentation can provide a robust
regularizing prior for resolving ambiguities in stereo correspondence and
reconstruction problems. To enable research for pairwise semantic stereo and
multi-view semantic 3D reconstruction with incidental satellite images, we have
established a large-scale public dataset including multi-view, multi-band
satellite images and ground truth geometric and semantic labels for two large
cities. To demonstrate the complementary nature of the stereo and segmentation
tasks, we present lightweight public baselines adapted from recent state of the
art convolutional neural network models and assess their performance.

197
Matchable Image Retrieval by Learning from Surface Reconstruction
2018-11-26
Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have achieved superior performance on
object image retrieval, while Bag-of-Words (BoW) models with handcrafted local
features still dominate the retrieval of overlapping images in 3D
reconstruction. In this paper, we narrow down this gap by presenting an
efficient CNN-based method to retrieve images with overlaps, which we refer to
as the matchable image retrieval problem. Different from previous methods that
generates training data based on sparse reconstruction, we create a large-scale
image database with rich 3D geometrics and exploit information from surface
reconstruction to obtain fine-grained training data. We propose a batched
triplet-based loss function combined with mesh re-projection to effectively
learn the CNN representation. The proposed method significantly accelerates the
image retrieval process in 3D reconstruction and outperforms the
state-of-the-art CNN-based and BoW methods for matchable image retrieval. The
code and data are available at https://github.com/hlzz/mirror.

201
Scan2CAD: Learning CAD Model Alignment in RGB-D Scans
2018-11-27
We present Scan2CAD, a novel data-driven method that learns to align clean 3D
CAD models from a shape database to the noisy and incomplete geometry of a
commodity RGB-D scan. For a 3D reconstruction of an indoor scene, our method
takes as input a set of CAD models, and predicts a 9DoF pose that aligns each
model to the underlying scan geometry. To tackle this problem, we create a new
scan-to-CAD alignment dataset based on 1506 ScanNet scans with 97607 annotated
keypoint pairs between 14225 CAD models from ShapeNet and their counterpart
objects in the scans. Our method selects a set of representative keypoints in a
3D scan for which we find correspondences to the CAD geometry. To this end, we
design a novel 3D CNN architecture that learns a joint embedding between real
and synthetic objects, and from this predicts a correspondence heatmap. Based
on these correspondence heatmaps, we formulate a variational energy
minimization that aligns a given set of CAD models to the reconstruction. We
evaluate our approach on our newly introduced Scan2CAD benchmark where we
outperform both handcrafted feature descriptor as well as state-of-the-art CNN
based methods by 21.39%.

206
DeepVoxels: Learning Persistent 3D Feature Embeddings
2018-12-03
In this work, we address the lack of 3D understanding of generative neural
networks by introducing a persistent 3D feature embedding for view synthesis.
To this end, we propose DeepVoxels, a learned representation that encodes the
view-dependent appearance of a 3D scene without having to explicitly model its
geometry. At its core, our approach is based on a Cartesian 3D grid of
persistent embedded features that learn to make use of the underlying 3D scene
structure. Our approach combines insights from 3D geometric computer vision
with recent advances in learning image-to-image mappings based on adversarial
loss functions. DeepVoxels is supervised, without requiring a 3D reconstruction
of the scene, using a 2D re-rendering loss and enforces perspective and
multi-view geometry in a principled manner. We apply our persistent 3D scene
representation to the problem of novel view synthesis demonstrating
high-quality results for a variety of challenging scenes.

207
Domain-Adaptive Single-View 3D Reconstruction
2018-12-04
Single-view 3D shape reconstruction is an important but challenging problem, mainly for two reasons. First, as shape annotation is very expensive to acquire, current methods rely on synthetic data, in which ground-truth 3D annotation is easy to obtain. However, this results in domain adaptation problem when applied to natural images. The second challenge is that there are multiple shapes that can explain a given 2D image. In this paper, we propose a framework to improve over these challenges using adversarial training. On one hand, we impose domain confusion between natural and synthetic image representations to reduce the distribution gap. On the other hand, we impose the reconstruction to be `realistic' by forcing it to lie on a (learned) manifold of realistic object shapes. Our experiments show that these constraints improve performance by a large margin over baseline reconstruction models. We achieve results competitive with the state of the art with a much simpler architecture.

212
Learning Implicit Fields for Generative Shape Modeling
2018-12-06
We advocate the use of implicit fields for learning generative models of shapes and introduce an implicit field decoder, called IM-NET, for shape generation, aimed at improving the visual quality of the generated shapes. An implicit field assigns a value to each point in 3D space, so that a shape can be extracted as an iso-surface. IM-NET is trained to perform this assignment by means of a binary classifier. Specifically, it takes a point coordinate, along with a feature vector encoding a shape, and outputs a value which indicates whether the point is outside the shape or not. By replacing conventional decoders by our implicit decoder for representation learning (via IM-AE) and shape generation (via IM-GAN), we demonstrate superior results for tasks such as generative shape modeling, interpolation, and single-view 3D reconstruction, particularly in terms of visual quality. Code and supplementary material are available at https://github.com/czq142857/implicit-decoder.

213
Occupancy Networks: Learning 3D Reconstruction in Function Space
2018-12-10
With the advent of deep neural networks, learning-based approaches for 3D
reconstruction have gained popularity. However, unlike for images, in 3D there
is no canonical representation which is both computationally and memory
efficient yet allows for representing high-resolution geometry of arbitrary
topology. Many of the state-of-the-art learning-based 3D reconstruction
approaches can hence only represent very coarse 3D geometry or are limited to a
restricted domain. In this paper, we propose Occupancy Networks, a new
representation for learning-based 3D reconstruction methods. Occupancy networks
implicitly represent the 3D surface as the continuous decision boundary of a
deep neural network classifier. In contrast to existing approaches, our
representation encodes a description of the 3D output at infinite resolution
without excessive memory footprint. We validate that our representation can
efficiently encode 3D structure and can be inferred from various kinds of
input. Our experiments demonstrate competitive results, both qualitatively and
quantitatively, for the challenging tasks of 3D reconstruction from single
images, noisy point clouds and coarse discrete voxel grids. We believe that
occupancy networks will become a useful tool in a wide variety of
learning-based 3D tasks.

214
PlaneRCNN: 3D Plane Detection and Reconstruction from a Single Image
2018-12-10
This paper proposes a deep neural architecture, PlaneRCNN, that detects and
reconstructs piecewise planar surfaces from a single RGB image. PlaneRCNN
employs a variant of Mask R-CNN to detect planes with their plane parameters
and segmentation masks. PlaneRCNN then jointly refines all the segmentation
masks with a novel loss enforcing the consistency with a nearby view during
training. The paper also presents a new benchmark with more fine-grained plane
segmentations in the ground-truth, in which, PlaneRCNN outperforms existing
state-of-the-art methods with significant margins in the plane detection,
segmentation, and reconstruction metrics. PlaneRCNN makes an important step
towards robust plane extraction, which would have an immediate impact on a wide
range of applications including Robotics, Augmented Reality, and Virtual
Reality.

216
3D-SIS: 3D Semantic Instance Segmentation of RGB-D Scans
2018-12-17
We introduce 3D-SIS, a novel neural network architecture for 3D semantic
instance segmentation in commodity RGB-D scans. The core idea of our method is
to jointly learn from both geometric and color signal, thus enabling accurate
instance predictions. Rather than operate solely on 2D frames, we observe that
most computer vision applications have multi-view RGB-D input available, which
we leverage to construct an approach for 3D instance segmentation that
effectively fuses together these multi-modal inputs. Our network leverages
high-resolution RGB input by associating 2D images with the volumetric grid
based on the pose alignment of the 3D reconstruction. For each image, we first
extract 2D features for each pixel with a series of 2D convolutions; we then
backproject the resulting feature vector to the associated voxel in the 3D
grid. This combination of 2D and 3D feature learning allows significantly
higher accuracy object detection and instance segmentation than
state-of-the-art alternatives. We show results on both synthetic and real-world
public benchmarks, achieving an improvement in mAP of over 13 on real-world
data.

225
CarFusion: Combining Point Tracking and Part Detection for Dynamic 3D Reconstruction of Vehicles
2018-06-01
Despite significant research in the area, reconstruction of multiple dynamic rigid objects (eg. vehicles) observed from   wide-baseline, uncalibrated and unsynchronized cameras, remains hard. On one hand, feature tracking works well within each view but is hard to correspond across multiple cameras with limited overlap in fields of view or due to occlusions. On the other hand, advances in deep learning have resulted in strong detectors that work across different viewpoints but are still not precise enough for triangulation-based reconstruction. In this work, we develop a framework to fuse both the single-view feature tracks and multi-view detected part locations to significantly improve the detection, localization and reconstruction of moving vehicles, even in the presence of strong occlusions. We demonstrate our framework at a busy traffic intersection by reconstructing over 62 vehicles passing within a 3-minute window. We evaluate the different components within our framework and compare to alternate  approaches such as reconstruction using tracking-by-detection.

232
Learning Single-View 3D Reconstruction with Limited Pose Supervision
2018-09-01
It is expensive to label images with 3D structure or precise camera pose. Yet, this is precisely the kind of annotation required to train single-view 3D reconstruction models. In contrast, unlabeled images or images with just category labels are easy to acquire, but few current models can use this weak supervision. We present a unified framework that can combine both types of supervision: a small amount of camera pose annotations are used to enforce pose-invariance and view-point consistency, and unlabeled images combined with an adversarial loss are used to enforce the realism of rendered, generated models. We use this unified framework to measure the impact of each form of supervision in three paradigms: semi-supervised, multi-task, and transfer learning. We show that with a combination of these ideas, we can train single-view reconstruction models that improve up to 7 points in performance (AP) when using only 1% pose annotated training data.

242
Neural RGB->D Sensing: Depth and Uncertainty from a Video Camera
2019-01-09
Depth sensing is crucial for 3D reconstruction and scene understanding.
Active depth sensors provide dense metric measurements, but often suffer from
limitations such as restricted operating ranges, low spatial resolution, sensor
interference, and high power consumption. In this paper, we propose a deep
learning (DL) method to estimate per-pixel depth and its uncertainty
continuously from a monocular video stream, with the goal of effectively
turning an RGB camera into an RGB-D camera. Unlike prior DL-based methods, we
estimate a depth probability distribution for each pixel rather than a single
depth value, leading to an estimate of a 3D depth probability volume for each
input frame. These depth probability volumes are accumulated over time under a
Bayesian filtering framework as more incoming frames are processed
sequentially, which effectively reduces depth uncertainty and improves
accuracy, robustness, and temporal stability. Compared to prior work, the
proposed approach achieves more accurate and stable results, and generalizes
better to new datasets. Experimental results also show the output of our
approach can be directly fed into classical RGB-D based 3D scanning methods for
3D scene reconstruction.

245
DeepSDF: Learning Continuous Signed Distance Functions for Shape Representation
2019-01-16
Computer graphics, 3D computer vision and robotics communities have produced
multiple approaches to representing 3D geometry for rendering and
reconstruction. These provide trade-offs across fidelity, efficiency and
compression capabilities. In this work, we introduce DeepSDF, a learned
continuous Signed Distance Function (SDF) representation of a class of shapes
that enables high quality shape representation, interpolation and completion
from partial and noisy 3D input data. DeepSDF, like its classical counterpart,
represents a shape's surface by a continuous volumetric field: the magnitude of
a point in the field represents the distance to the surface boundary and the
sign indicates whether the region is inside (-) or outside (+) of the shape,
hence our representation implicitly encodes a shape's boundary as the
zero-level-set of the learned function while explicitly representing the
classification of space as being part of the shapes interior or not. While
classical SDF's both in analytical or discretized voxel form typically
represent the surface of a single shape, DeepSDF can represent an entire class
of shapes. Furthermore, we show state-of-the-art performance for learned 3D
shape representation and completion while reducing the model size by an order
of magnitude compared with previous work.

248
Hybrid coarse-fine classification for head pose estimation
2019-01-21
Head pose estimation, which computes the intrinsic Euler angles (yaw, pitch, roll) from the human, is crucial for gaze estimation, face alignment, and 3D reconstruction. Traditional approaches heavily relies on the accuracy of facial landmarks. It limits their performances, especially when the visibility of the face is not in good condition. In this paper, to do the estimation without facial landmarks, we combine the coarse and fine regression output together for a deep network. Utilizing more quantization units for the angles, a fine classifier is trained with the help of other auxiliary coarse units. Integrating regression is adopted to get the final prediction. The proposed approach is evaluated on three challenging benchmarks. It achieves the state-of-the-art on AFLW2000, BIWI and performs favorably on AFLW. The code has been released on Github.

249
Learning single-image 3D reconstruction by generative modelling of shape, pose and shading
2019-01-19
We present a unified framework tackling two problems: class-specific 3D reconstruction from a single image, and generation of new 3D shape samples. These tasks have received considerable attention recently; however, most existing approaches rely on 3D supervision, annotation of 2D images with keypoints or poses, and/or training with multiple views of each object instance. Our framework is very general: it can be trained in similar settings to existing approaches, while also supporting weaker supervision. Importantly, it can be trained purely from 2D images, without pose annotations, and with only a single view per instance. We employ meshes as an output representation, instead of voxels used in most prior work. This allows us to reason over lighting parameters and exploit shading information during training, which previous 2D-supervised methods cannot. Thus, our method can learn to generate and reconstruct concave object classes. We evaluate our approach in various settings, showing that: (i) it learns to disentangle shape from pose and lighting; (ii) using shading in the loss improves performance compared to just silhouettes; (iii) when using a standard single white light, our model outperforms state-of-the-art 2D-supervised methods, both with and without pose supervision, thanks to exploiting shading cues; (iv) performance improves further when using multiple coloured lights, even approaching that of state-of-the-art 3D-supervised methods; (v) shapes produced by our model capture smooth surfaces and fine details better than voxel-based approaches; and (vi) our approach supports concave classes such as bathtubs and sofas, which methods based on silhouettes cannot learn.

332
Pix2Vox: Context-aware 3D Reconstruction from Single and Multi-view Images
2019-01-31
Recovering the 3D representation of an object from single-view or multi-view RGB images by deep neural networks has attracted increasing attention in the past few years. Several mainstream works (e.g., 3D-R2N2) use recurrent neural networks (RNNs) to fuse multiple feature maps extracted from input images sequentially. However, when given the same set of input images with different orders, RNN-based approaches are unable to produce consistent reconstruction results. Moreover, due to long-term memory loss, RNNs cannot fully exploit input images to refine reconstruction results. To solve these problems, we propose a novel framework for single-view and multi-view 3D reconstruction, named Pix2Vox. By using a well-designed encoder-decoder, it generates a coarse 3D volume from each input image. Then, a context-aware fusion module is introduced to adaptively select high-quality reconstructions for each part (e.g., table legs) from different coarse 3D volumes to obtain a fused 3D volume. Finally, a refiner further refines the fused 3D volume to generate the final output. Experimental results on the ShapeNet and Pix3D benchmarks indicate that the proposed Pix2Vox outperforms state-of-the-arts by a large margin. Furthermore, the proposed method is 24 times faster than 3D-R2N2 in terms of backward inference time. The experiments on ShapeNet unseen 3D categories have shown the superior generalization abilities of our method.

335
Incremental Visual-Inertial 3D Mesh Generation with Structural Regularities
2019-03-04
Visual-Inertial Odometry (VIO) algorithms typically rely on a point cloud representation of the scene that does not model the topology of the environment. A 3D mesh instead offers a richer, yet lightweight, model. Nevertheless, building a 3D mesh out of the sparse and noisy 3D landmarks triangulated by a VIO algorithm often results in a mesh that does not fit the real scene. In order to regularize the mesh, previous approaches decouple state estimation from the 3D mesh regularization step, and either limit the 3D mesh to the current frame or let the mesh grow indefinitely. We propose instead to tightly couple mesh regularization and state estimation by detecting and enforcing structural regularities in a novel factor-graph formulation. We also propose to incrementally build the mesh by restricting its extent to the time-horizon of the VIO optimization; the resulting 3D mesh covers a larger portion of the scene than a per-frame approach while its memory usage and computational complexity remain bounded. We show that our approach successfully regularizes the mesh, while improving localization accuracy, when structural regularities are present, and remains operational in scenes without regularities.

340
Photometric Mesh Optimization for Video-Aligned 3D Object Reconstruction
2019-03-20
In this paper, we address the problem of 3D object mesh reconstruction from
RGB videos. Our approach combines the best of multi-view geometric and
data-driven methods for 3D reconstruction by optimizing object meshes for
multi-view photometric consistency while constraining mesh deformations with a
shape prior. We pose this as a piecewise image alignment problem for each mesh
face projection. Our approach allows us to update shape parameters from the
photometric error without any depth or mask information. Moreover, we show how
to avoid a degeneracy of zero photometric gradients via rasterizing from a
virtual viewpoint. We demonstrate 3D object mesh reconstruction results from
both synthetic and real-world videos with our photometric mesh optimization,
which is unachievable with either na\"ive mesh generation networks or
traditional pipelines of surface reconstruction without heavy manual
post-processing.

342
PLMP -- Point-Line Minimal Problems in Complete Multi-View Visibility
2019-03-24
We present a complete classification of all minimal problems for generic arrangements of points and lines completely observed by calibrated perspective cameras. We show that there are only 30 minimal problems in total, no problems exist for more than 6 cameras, for more than 5 points, and for more than 6 lines. We present a sequence of tests for detecting minimality starting with counting degrees of freedom and ending with full symbolic and numeric verification of representative examples. For all minimal problems discovered, we present their algebraic degrees, i.e. the number of solutions, which measure their intrinsic difficulty. It shows how exactly the difficulty of problems grows with the number of views. Importantly, several new minimal problems have small degrees that might be practical in image matching and 3D reconstruction.

347
Expressive Body Capture: 3D Hands, Face, and Body from a Single Image
2019-04-11
To facilitate the analysis of human actions, interactions and emotions, we
compute a 3D model of human body pose, hand pose, and facial expression from a
single monocular image. To achieve this, we use thousands of 3D scans to train
a new, unified, 3D model of the human body, SMPL-X, that extends SMPL with
fully articulated hands and an expressive face. Learning to regress the
parameters of SMPL-X directly from images is challenging without paired images
and 3D ground truth. Consequently, we follow the approach of SMPLify, which
estimates 2D features and then optimizes model parameters to fit the features.
We improve on SMPLify in several significant ways: (1) we detect 2D features
corresponding to the face, hands, and feet and fit the full SMPL-X model to
these; (2) we train a new neural network pose prior using a large MoCap
dataset; (3) we define a new interpenetration penalty that is both fast and
accurate; (4) we automatically detect gender and the appropriate body models
(male, female, or neutral); (5) our PyTorch implementation achieves a speedup
of more than 8x over Chumpy. We use the new method, SMPLify-X, to fit SMPL-X to
both controlled images and images in the wild. We evaluate 3D accuracy on a new
curated dataset comprising 100 images with pseudo ground-truth. This is a step
towards automatic expressive human capture from monocular RGB data. The models,
code, and data are available for research purposes at
https://smpl-x.is.tue.mpg.de.

349
Transformable Bottleneck Networks
2019-04-13
We propose a novel approach to performing fine-grained 3D manipulation of image content via a convolutional neural network, which we call the Transformable Bottleneck Network (TBN). It applies given spatial transformations directly to a volumetric bottleneck within our encoder-bottleneck-decoder architecture. Multi-view supervision encourages the network to learn to spatially disentangle the feature space within the bottleneck. The resulting spatial structure can be manipulated with arbitrary spatial transformations. We demonstrate the efficacy of TBNs for novel view synthesis, achieving state-of-the-art results on a challenging benchmark. We demonstrate that the bottlenecks produced by networks trained for this task contain meaningful spatial structure that allows us to intuitively perform a variety of image manipulations in 3D, well beyond the rigid transformations seen during training. These manipulations include non-uniform scaling, non-rigid warping, and combining content from different images. Finally, we extract explicit 3D structure from the bottleneck, performing impressive 3D reconstruction from a single input image.

352
Learning Character-Agnostic Motion for Motion Retargeting in 2D
2019-05-05
Analyzing human motion is a challenging task with a wide variety of applications in computer vision and in graphics. One such application, of particular importance in computer animation, is the retargeting of motion from one performer to another. While humans move in three dimensions, the vast majority of human motions are captured using video, requiring 2D-to-3D pose and camera recovery, before existing retargeting approaches may be applied. In this paper, we present a new method for retargeting video-captured motion between different human performers, without the need to explicitly reconstruct 3D poses and/or camera parameters. In order to achieve our goal, we learn to extract, directly from a video, a high-level latent motion representation, which is invariant to the skeleton geometry and the camera view. Our key idea is to train a deep neural network to decompose temporal sequences of 2D poses into three components: motion, skeleton, and camera view-angle. Having extracted such a representation, we are able to re-combine motion with novel skeletons and camera views, and decode a retargeted temporal sequence, which we compare to a ground truth from a synthetic dataset. We demonstrate that our framework can be used to robustly extract human motion from videos, bypassing 3D reconstruction, and outperforming existing retargeting methods, when applied to videos in-the-wild. It also enables additional applications, such as performance cloning, video-driven cartoons, and motion retrieval.

355
D2-Net: A Trainable CNN for Joint Detection and Description of Local Features
2019-05-09
In this work we address the problem of finding reliable pixel-level correspondences under difficult imaging conditions. We propose an approach where a single convolutional neural network plays a dual role: It is simultaneously a dense feature descriptor and a feature detector. By postponing the detection to a later stage, the obtained keypoints are more stable than their traditional counterparts based on early detection of low-level structures. We show that this model can be trained using pixel correspondences extracted from readily available large-scale SfM reconstructions, without any further annotations. The proposed method obtains state-of-the-art performance on both the difficult Aachen Day-Night localization dataset and the InLoc indoor localization benchmark, as well as competitive performance on other benchmarks for image matching and 3D reconstruction.

363
Learning Non-Volumetric Depth Fusion Using Successive Reprojections
2019-06-01
Given a set of input views, multi-view stereopsis techniques estimate depth maps to represent the 3D reconstruction of the scene; these are fused into a single, consistent, reconstruction -- most often a point cloud. In this work we propose to learn an auto-regressive depth refinement directly from data. While deep learning has improved the accuracy and speed of depth estimation significantly, learned MVS techniques remain limited to the planesweeping paradigm. We refine a set of input depth maps by successively reprojecting information from neighbouring views to leverage multi-view constraints. Compared to learning-based volumetric fusion techniques, an image-based representation allows significantly more detailed reconstructions; compared to traditional point-based techniques, our method learns noise suppression and surface completion in a data-driven fashion. Due to the limited availability of high-quality reconstruction datasets with ground truth, we introduce two novel synthetic datasets to (pre-)train our network. Our approach is able to improve both the output depth maps and the reconstructed point cloud, for both learned and traditional depth estimation front-ends, on both synthetic and real data.

364
D2-Net: A Trainable CNN for Joint Description and Detection of Local Features
2019-06-01
In this work we address the problem of finding reliable pixel-level correspondences under difficult imaging conditions. We propose an approach where a single convolutional neural network plays a dual role: It is simultaneously a dense feature descriptor and a feature detector. By postponing the detection to a later stage, the obtained keypoints are more stable than their traditional counterparts based on early detection of low-level structures. We show that this model can be trained using pixel correspondences extracted from readily available large-scale SfM reconstructions, without any further annotations. The proposed method obtains state-of-the-art performance on both the difficult Aachen Day-Night localization dataset and the InLoc indoor localization benchmark, as well as competitive performance on other benchmarks for image matching and 3D reconstruction.

370
Robust Point Cloud Based Reconstruction of Large-Scale Outdoor Scenes
2019-05-23
Outlier feature matches and loop-closures that survived front-end data association can lead to catastrophic failures in the back-end optimization of large-scale point cloud based 3D reconstruction. To alleviate this problem, we propose a probabilistic approach for robust back-end optimization in the presence of outliers. More specifically, we model the problem as a Bayesian network and solve it using the Expectation-Maximization algorithm. Our approach leverages on a long-tail Cauchy distribution to suppress outlier feature matches in the odometry constraints, and a Cauchy-Uniform mixture model with a set of binary latent variables to simultaneously suppress outlier loop-closure constraints and outlier feature matches in the inlier loop-closure constraints. Furthermore, we show that by using a Gaussian-Uniform mixture model, our approach degenerates to the formulation of a state-of-the-art approach for robust indoor reconstruction. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach has comparable performance with the state-of-the-art on a benchmark indoor dataset, and outperforms it on a large-scale outdoor dataset. Our source code can be found on the project website.

374
DISN: Deep Implicit Surface Network for High-quality Single-view 3D Reconstruction
2019-05-26
Reconstructing 3D shapes from single-view images has been a long-standing research problem. In this paper, we present DISN, a Deep Implicit Surface Network which can generate a high-quality detail-rich 3D mesh from an 2D image by predicting the underlying signed distance fields. In addition to utilizing global image features, DISN predicts the projected location for each 3D point on the 2D image, and extracts local features from the image feature maps. Combining global and local features significantly improves the accuracy of the signed distance field prediction, especially for the detail-rich areas. To the best of our knowledge, DISN is the first method that constantly captures details such as holes and thin structures present in 3D shapes from single-view images. DISN achieves the state-of-the-art single-view reconstruction performance on a variety of shape categories reconstructed from both synthetic and real images. Code is available at https://github.com/xharlie/DISN The supplementary can be found at https://xharlie.github.io/images/neurips_2019_supp.pdf

377
Differentiable probabilistic models of scientific imaging with the Fourier slice theorem
2019-06-18
Scientific imaging techniques such as optical and electron microscopy and computed tomography (CT) scanning are used to study the 3D structure of an object through 2D observations. These observations are related to the original 3D object through orthogonal integral projections. For common 3D reconstruction algorithms, computational efficiency requires the modeling of the 3D structures to take place in Fourier space by applying the Fourier slice theorem. At present, it is unclear how to differentiate through the projection operator, and hence current learning algorithms can not rely on gradient based methods to optimize 3D structure models. In this paper we show how back-propagation through the projection operator in Fourier space can be achieved. We demonstrate the validity of the approach with experiments on 3D reconstruction of proteins. We further extend our approach to learning probabilistic models of 3D objects. This allows us to predict regions of low sampling rates or estimate noise. A higher sample efficiency can be reached by utilizing the learned uncertainties of the 3D structure as an unsupervised estimate of the model fit. Finally, we demonstrate how the reconstruction algorithm can be extended with an amortized inference scheme on unknown attributes such as object pose. Through empirical studies we show that joint inference of the 3D structure and the object pose becomes more difficult when the ground truth object contains more symmetries. Due to the presence of for instance (approximate) rotational symmetries, the pose estimation can easily get stuck in local optima, inhibiting a fine-grained high-quality estimate of the 3D structure.

385
Cryo-EM reconstruction of continuous heterogeneity by Laplacian spectral volumes
2019-07-01
Single-particle electron cryomicroscopy is an essential tool for high-resolution 3D reconstruction of proteins and other biological macromolecules. An important challenge in cryo-EM is the reconstruction of non-rigid molecules with parts that move and deform. Traditional reconstruction methods fail in these cases, resulting in smeared reconstructions of the moving parts. This poses a major obstacle for structural biologists, who need high-resolution reconstructions of entire macromolecules, moving parts included. To address this challenge, we present a new method for the reconstruction of macromolecules exhibiting continuous heterogeneity. The proposed method uses projection images from multiple viewing directions to construct a graph Laplacian through which the manifold of three-dimensional conformations is analyzed. The 3D molecular structures are then expanded in a basis of Laplacian eigenvectors, using a novel generalized tomographic reconstruction algorithm to compute the expansion coefficients. These coefficients, which we name spectral volumes, provide a high-resolution visualization of the molecular dynamics. We provide a theoretical analysis and evaluate the method empirically on several simulated data sets.

390
Temporally Consistent Horizon Lines
2019-07-23
The horizon line is an important geometric feature for many image processing and scene understanding tasks in computer vision. For instance, in navigation of autonomous vehicles or driver assistance, it can be used to improve 3D reconstruction as well as for semantic interpretation of dynamic environments. While both algorithms and datasets exist for single images, the problem of horizon line estimation from video sequences has not gained attention. In this paper, we show how convolutional neural networks are able to utilise the temporal consistency imposed by video sequences in order to increase the accuracy and reduce the variance of horizon line estimates. A novel CNN architecture with an improved residual convolutional LSTM is presented for temporally consistent horizon line estimation. We propose an adaptive loss function that ensures stable training as well as accurate results. Furthermore, we introduce an extension of the KITTI dataset which contains precise horizon line labels for 43699 images across 72 video sequences. A comprehensive evaluation shows that the proposed approach consistently achieves superior performance compared with existing methods.

391
Learning Embedding of 3D models with Quadric Loss
2019-07-24
Sharp features such as edges and corners play an important role in the perception of 3D models. In order to capture them better, we propose quadric loss, a point-surface loss function, which minimizes the quadric error between the reconstructed points and the input surface. Computation of Quadric loss is easy, efficient since the quadric matrices can be computed apriori, and is fully differentiable, making quadric loss suitable for training point and mesh based architectures. Through extensive experiments we show the merits and demerits of quadric loss. When combined with Chamfer loss, quadric loss achieves better reconstruction results as compared to any one of them or other point-surface loss functions.

393
PU-GAN: a Point Cloud Upsampling Adversarial Network
2019-07-25
Point clouds acquired from range scans are often sparse, noisy, and non-uniform. This paper presents a new point cloud upsampling network called PU-GAN, which is formulated based on a generative adversarial network (GAN), to learn a rich variety of point distributions from the latent space and upsample points over patches on object surfaces. To realize a working GAN network, we construct an up-down-up expansion unit in the generator for upsampling point features with error feedback and self-correction, and formulate a self-attention unit to enhance the feature integration. Further, we design a compound loss with adversarial, uniform and reconstruction terms, to encourage the discriminator to learn more latent patterns and enhance the output point distribution uniformity. Qualitative and quantitative evaluations demonstrate the quality of our results over the state-of-the-arts in terms of distribution uniformity, proximity-to-surface, and 3D reconstruction quality.

394
Silhouette Guided Point Cloud Reconstruction beyond Occlusion
2019-07-29
One major challenge in 3D reconstruction is to infer the complete shape geometry from partial foreground occlusions. In this paper, we propose a method to reconstruct the complete 3D shape of an object from a single RGB image, with robustness to occlusion. Given the image and a silhouette of the visible region, our approach completes the silhouette of the occluded region and then generates a point cloud. We show improvements for reconstruction of non-occluded and partially occluded objects by providing the predicted complete silhouette as guidance. We also improve state-of-the-art for 3D shape prediction with a 2D reprojection loss from multiple synthetic views and a surface-based smoothing and refinement step. Experiments demonstrate the efficacy of our approach both quantitatively and qualitatively on synthetic and real scene datasets.

400
PCRNet: Point Cloud Registration Network using PointNet Encoding
2019-08-21
PointNet has recently emerged as a popular representation for unstructured point cloud data, allowing application of deep learning to tasks such as object detection, segmentation and shape completion. However, recent works in literature have shown the sensitivity of the PointNet representation to pose misalignment. This paper presents a novel framework that uses the PointNet representation to align point clouds and perform registration for applications such as tracking, 3D reconstruction and pose estimation. We develop a framework that compares PointNet features of template and source point clouds to find the transformation that aligns them accurately. Depending on the prior information about the shape of the object formed by the point clouds, our framework can produce approaches that are shape specific or general to unseen shapes. The shape specific approach uses a Siamese architecture with fully connected (FC) layers and is robust to noise and initial misalignment in data. We perform extensive simulation and real-world experiments to validate the efficacy of our approach and compare the performance with state-of-art approaches.

404
Hyperparameter-Free Losses for Model-Based Monocular Reconstruction
2019-08-16
This work proposes novel hyperparameter-free losses for single view 3D reconstruction with morphable models (3DMM). We dispense with the hyperparameters used in other works by exploiting geometry, so that the shape of the object and the camera pose are jointly optimized in a sole term expression. This simplification reduces the optimization time and its complexity. Moreover, we propose a novel implicit regularization technique based on random virtual projections that does not require additional 2D or 3D annotations. Our experiments suggest that minimizing a shape reprojection error together with the proposed implicit regularization is especially suitable for applications that require precise alignment between geometry and image spaces, such as augmented reality. We evaluate our losses on a large scale dataset with 3D ground truth and publish our implementations to facilitate reproducibility and public benchmarking in this field.

413
UNI-EM: An Environment for Deep Neural Network-Based Automated Segmentation of Neuronal Electron Microscopic Images
2019-04-12
Recently, there has been a rapid expansion in the field of micro-connectomics, which targets the three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction of neuronal networks from a stack of two-dimensional (2D) electron microscopic (EM) images. The spatial scale of the 3D reconstruction grows rapidly owing to deep neural networks (DNNs) that enable automated image segmentation. Several research teams have developed their own software pipelines for DNN-based segmentation. However, the complexity of such pipelines makes their use difficult even for computer experts and impossible for non-experts. In this study, we developed a new software program, called UNI-EM, that enables 2D- and 3D-DNN-based segmentation for non-computer experts. UNI-EM is a software collection for DNN-based EM image segmentation, including ground truth generation, training, inference, postprocessing, proofreading, and visualization. UNI-EM comes with a set of 2D DNNs, i.e., U-Net, ResNet, HighwayNet, and DenseNet. We further wrapped flood-filling networks (FFNs) as a representative 3D DNN-based neuron segmentation algorithm. The 2D- and 3D-DNNs are known to show state-of-the-art level segmentation performance. We then provided two-example workflows: mitochondria segmentation using a 2D DNN as well as neuron segmentation using FFNs. Following these example workflows, users can benefit from DNN-based segmentation without any knowledge of Python programming or DNN frameworks.

416
Track to Reconstruct and Reconstruct to Track
2019-09-30
Object tracking and 3D reconstruction are often performed together, with tracking used as input for reconstruction. However, the obtained reconstructions also provide useful information for improving tracking. We propose a novel method that closes this loop, first tracking to reconstruct, and then reconstructing to track. Our approach, MOTSFusion (Multi-Object Tracking, Segmentation and dynamic object Fusion), exploits the 3D motion extracted from dynamic object reconstructions to track objects through long periods of complete occlusion and to recover missing detections. Our approach first builds up short tracklets using 2D optical flow, and then fuses these into dynamic 3D object reconstructions. The precise 3D object motion of these reconstructions is used to merge tracklets through occlusion into long-term tracks, and to locate objects when detections are missing. On KITTI, our reconstruction-based tracking reduces the number of ID switches of the initial tracklets by more than 50%, and outperforms all previous approaches for both bounding box and segmentation tracking.

423
Self-supervised 3D Shape and Viewpoint Estimation from Single Images for Robotics
2019-10-17
We present a convolutional neural network for joint 3D shape prediction and viewpoint estimation from a single input image. During training, our network gets the learning signal from a silhouette of an object in the input image - a form of self-supervision. It does not require ground truth data for 3D shapes and the viewpoints. Because it relies on such a weak form of supervision, our approach can easily be applied to real-world data. We demonstrate that our method produces reasonable qualitative and quantitative results on natural images for both shape estimation and viewpoint prediction. Unlike previous approaches, our method does not require multiple views of the same object instance in the dataset, which significantly expands the applicability in practical robotics scenarios. We showcase it by using the hallucinated shapes to improve the performance on the task of grasping real-world objects both in simulation and with a PR2 robot.

429
Probabilistic Inference for Camera Calibration in Light Microscopy under Circular Motion
2019-10-30
Robust and accurate camera calibration is essential for 3D reconstruction in light microscopy under circular motion. Conventional methods require either accurate key point matching or precise segmentation of the axial-view images. Both remain challenging because specimens often exhibit transparency/translucency in a light microscope. To address those issues, we propose a probabilistic inference based method for the camera calibration that does not require sophisticated image pre-processing. Based on 3D projective geometry, our method assigns a probability on each of a range of voxels that cover the whole object. The probability indicates the likelihood of a voxel belonging to the object to be reconstructed. Our method maximizes a joint probability that distinguishes the object from the background. Experimental results show that the proposed method can accurately recover camera configurations in both light microscopy and natural scene imaging. Furthermore, the method can be used to produce high-fidelity 3D reconstructions and accurate 3D measurements.

430
Surface Reconstruction from 3D Line Segments
2019-11-01
In man-made environments such as indoor scenes, when point-based 3D reconstruction fails due to the lack of texture, lines can still be detected and used to support surfaces. We present a novel method for watertight piecewise-planar surface reconstruction from 3D line segments with visibility information. First, planes are extracted by a novel RANSAC approach for line segments that allows multiple shape support. Then, each 3D cell of a plane arrangement is labeled full or empty based on line attachment to planes, visibility and regularization. Experiments show the robustness to sparse input data, noise and outliers.

433
Fixing Implicit Derivatives: Trust-Region Based Learning of Continuous Energy Functions
2019-12-01
We present a new technique for the learning of continuous energy functions that
we refer to as Wibergian Learning. One common approach to inverse problems
is to cast them as an energy minimisation problem, where the minimum cost
solution found is used as an estimator of hidden parameters. Our new approach
formally characterises the dependency between weights that control the shape of
the energy function, and the location of minima, by describing minima as fixed
points of optimisation methods. This allows for the use of gradient-based end-to-
end training to integrate deep-learning and the classical inverse problem methods.
We show how our approach can be applied to obtain state-of-the-art results in the
diverse applications of tracker fusion and multiview 3D reconstruction.

435
Domes to Drones: Self-Supervised Active Triangulation for 3D Human Pose Reconstruction
2019-12-01
Existing state-of-the-art estimation systems can detect 2d poses of multiple people in images quite reliably. In contrast, 3d pose estimation from a single image is ill-posed due to occlusion and depth ambiguities. Assuming access to multiple cameras, or given an active system able to position itself to observe the scene from multiple viewpoints, reconstructing 3d pose from 2d measurements becomes well-posed within the framework of standard multi-view geometry. Less clear is what is an informative set of viewpoints for accurate 3d reconstruction, particularly in complex scenes, where people are occluded by others or by scene objects. In order to address the view selection problem in a principled way, we here introduce ACTOR, an active triangulation agent for 3d human pose reconstruction. Our fully trainable agent consists of a 2d pose estimation network (any of which would work) and a deep reinforcement learning-based policy for camera viewpoint selection. The policy predicts observation viewpoints, the number of which varies adaptively depending on scene content, and the associated images are fed to an underlying pose estimator. Importantly, training the policy requires no annotations - given a 2d pose estimator, ACTOR is trained in a self-supervised manner. In extensive evaluations on complex multi-people scenes filmed in a Panoptic dome, under multiple viewpoints, we compare our active triangulation agent to strong multi-view baselines, and show that ACTOR produces significantly more accurate 3d pose reconstructions. We also provide a proof-of-concept experiment indicating the potential of connecting our view selection policy to a physical drone observer.

436
GraphX-Convolution for Point Cloud Deformation in 2D-to-3D Conversion
2019-11-15
In this paper, we present a novel deep method to reconstruct a point cloud of an object from a single still image. Prior arts in the field struggle to reconstruct an accurate and scalable 3D model due to either the inefficient and expensive 3D representations, the dependency between the output and number of model parameters or the lack of a suitable computing operation. We propose to overcome these by deforming a random point cloud to the object shape through two steps: feature blending and deformation. In the first step, the global and point-specific shape features extracted from a 2D object image are blended with the encoded feature of a randomly generated point cloud, and then this mixture is sent to the deformation step to produce the final representative point set of the object. In the deformation process, we introduce a new layer termed as GraphX that considers the inter-relationship between points like common graph convolutions but operates on unordered sets. Moreover, with a simple trick, the proposed model can generate an arbitrary-sized point cloud, which is the first deep method to do so. Extensive experiments verify that we outperform existing models and halve the state-of-the-art distance score in single image 3D reconstruction.

437
BSP-Net: Generating Compact Meshes via Binary Space Partitioning
2019-11-16
Polygonal meshes are ubiquitous in the digital 3D domain, yet they have only played a minor role in the deep learning revolution. Leading methods for learning generative models of shapes rely on implicit functions, and generate meshes only after expensive iso-surfacing routines. To overcome these challenges, we are inspired by a classical spatial data structure from computer graphics, Binary Space Partitioning (BSP), to facilitate 3D learning. The core ingredient of BSP is an operation for recursive subdivision of space to obtain convex sets. By exploiting this property, we devise BSP-Net, a network that learns to represent a 3D shape via convex decomposition. Importantly, BSP-Net is unsupervised since no convex shape decompositions are needed for training. The network is trained to reconstruct a shape using a set of convexes obtained from a BSP-tree built on a set of planes. The convexes inferred by BSP-Net can be easily extracted to form a polygon mesh, without any need for iso-surfacing. The generated meshes are compact (i.e., low-poly) and well suited to represent sharp geometry; they are guaranteed to be watertight and can be easily parameterized. We also show that the reconstruction quality by BSP-Net is competitive with state-of-the-art methods while using much fewer primitives. Code is available at https://github.com/czq142857/BSP-NET-original.

441
BlendedMVS: A Large-scale Dataset for Generalized Multi-view Stereo Networks
2019-11-22
While deep learning has recently achieved great success on multi-view stereo (MVS), limited training data makes the trained model hard to be generalized to unseen scenarios. Compared with other computer vision tasks, it is rather difficult to collect a large-scale MVS dataset as it requires expensive active scanners and labor-intensive process to obtain ground truth 3D structures. In this paper, we introduce BlendedMVS, a novel large-scale dataset, to provide sufficient training ground truth for learning-based MVS. To create the dataset, we apply a 3D reconstruction pipeline to recover high-quality textured meshes from images of well-selected scenes. Then, we render these mesh models to color images and depth maps. To introduce the ambient lighting information during training, the rendered color images are further blended with the input images to generate the training input. Our dataset contains over 17k high-resolution images covering a variety of scenes, including cities, architectures, sculptures and small objects. Extensive experiments demonstrate that BlendedMVS endows the trained model with significantly better generalization ability compared with other MVS datasets. The dataset and pretrained models are available at \url{https://github.com/YoYo000/BlendedMVS}.

442
PQ-NET: A Generative Part Seq2Seq Network for 3D Shapes
2019-11-25
We introduce PQ-NET, a deep neural network which represents and generates 3D shapes via sequential part assembly. The input to our network is a 3D shape segmented into parts, where each part is first encoded into a feature representation using a part autoencoder. The core component of PQ-NET is a sequence-to-sequence or Seq2Seq autoencoder which encodes a sequence of part features into a latent vector of fixed size, and the decoder reconstructs the 3D shape, one part at a time, resulting in a sequential assembly. The latent space formed by the Seq2Seq encoder encodes both part structure and fine part geometry. The decoder can be adapted to perform several generative tasks including shape autoencoding, interpolation, novel shape generation, and single-view 3D reconstruction, where the generated shapes are all composed of meaningful parts.

445
SG-NN: Sparse Generative Neural Networks for Self-Supervised Scene Completion of RGB-D Scans
2019-11-29
We present a novel approach that converts partial and noisy RGB-D scans into high-quality 3D scene reconstructions by inferring unobserved scene geometry. Our approach is fully self-supervised and can hence be trained solely on real-world, incomplete scans. To achieve self-supervision, we remove frames from a given (incomplete) 3D scan in order to make it even more incomplete; self-supervision is then formulated by correlating the two levels of partialness of the same scan while masking out regions that have never been observed. Through generalization across a large training set, we can then predict 3D scene completion without ever seeing any 3D scan of entirely complete geometry. Combined with a new 3D sparse generative neural network architecture, our method is able to predict highly-detailed surfaces in a coarse-to-fine hierarchical fashion, generating 3D scenes at 2cm resolution, more than twice the resolution of existing state-of-the-art methods as well as outperforming them by a significant margin in reconstruction quality.

449
Pyramid Multi-view Stereo Net with Self-adaptive View Aggregation
2019-12-06
n this paper, we propose an effective and efficient pyramid multi-view stereo (MVS) net with self-adaptive view aggregation for accurate and complete dense point cloud reconstruction. Different from using mean square variance to generate cost volume in previous deep-learning based MVS methods, our \textbf{VA-MVSNet} incorporates the cost variances in different views with small extra memory consumption by introducing two novel self-adaptive view aggregations: pixel-wise view aggregation and voxel-wise view aggregation. To further boost the robustness and completeness of 3D point cloud reconstruction, we extend VA-MVSNet with pyramid multi-scale images input as \textbf{PVA-MVSNet}, where multi-metric constraints are leveraged to aggregate the reliable depth estimation at the coarser scale to fill in the mismatched regions at the finer scale. Experimental results show that our approach establishes a new state-of-the-art on the \textsl{\textbf{DTU}} dataset with significant improvements in the completeness and overall quality, and has strong generalization by achieving a comparable performance as the state-of-the-art methods on the \textsl{\textbf{Tanks and Temples}} benchmark. Our codebase is at \hyperlink{https://github.com/yhw-yhw/PVAMVSNet}{https://github.com/yhw-yhw/PVAMVSNet}

450
PU-GCN: Point Cloud Upsampling using Graph Convolutional Networks
2019-11-30
The effectiveness of learning-based point cloud upsampling pipelines heavily relies on the upsampling modules and feature extractors used therein. For the point upsampling module, we propose a novel model called NodeShuffle, which uses a Graph Convolutional Network (GCN) to better encode local point information from point neighborhoods. NodeShuffle is versatile and can be incorporated into any point cloud upsampling pipeline. Extensive experiments show how NodeShuffle consistently improves state-of-the-art upsampling methods. For feature extraction, we also propose a new multi-scale point feature extractor, called Inception DenseGCN. By aggregating features at multiple scales, this feature extractor enables further performance gain in the final upsampled point clouds. We combine Inception DenseGCN with NodeShuffle into a new point upsampling pipeline called PU-GCN. PU-GCN sets new state-of-art performance with much fewer parameters and more efficient inference.

454
DeepDeform: Learning Non-rigid RGB-D Reconstruction with Semi-supervised Data
2019-12-09
Applying data-driven approaches to non-rigid 3D reconstruction has been difficult, which we believe can be attributed to the lack of a large-scale training corpus. Unfortunately, this method fails for important cases such as highly non-rigid deformations. We first address this problem of lack of data by introducing a novel semi-supervised strategy to obtain dense inter-frame correspondences from a sparse set of annotations. This way, we obtain a large dataset of 400 scenes, over 390,000 RGB-D frames, and 5,533 densely aligned frame pairs; in addition, we provide a test set along with several metrics for evaluation. Based on this corpus, we introduce a data-driven non-rigid feature matching approach, which we integrate into an optimization-based reconstruction pipeline. Here, we propose a new neural network that operates on RGB-D frames, while maintaining robustness under large non-rigid deformations and producing accurate predictions. Our approach significantly outperforms existing non-rigid reconstruction methods that do not use learned data terms, as well as learning-based approaches that only use self-supervision.

456
One Framework to Register Them All: PointNet Encoding for Point Cloud Alignment
2019-12-12
PointNet has recently emerged as a popular representation for unstructured point cloud data, allowing application of deep learning to tasks such as object detection, segmentation and shape completion. However, recent works in literature have shown the sensitivity of the PointNet representation to pose misalignment. This paper presents a novel framework that uses PointNet encoding to align point clouds and perform registration for applications such as 3D reconstruction, tracking and pose estimation. We develop a framework that compares PointNet features of template and source point clouds to find the transformation that aligns them accurately. In doing so, we avoid computationally expensive correspondence finding steps, that are central to popular registration methods such as ICP and its variants. Depending on the prior information about the shape of the object formed by the point clouds, our framework can produce approaches that are shape specific or general to unseen shapes. Our framework produces approaches that are robust to noise and initial misalignment in data and work robustly with sparse as well as partial point clouds. We perform extensive simulation and real-world experiments to validate the efficacy of our approach and compare the performance with state-of-art approaches. Code is available at https://github.com/vinits5/pointnet-registrationframework.

457
Cascade Cost Volume for High-Resolution Multi-View Stereo and Stereo Matching
2019-12-13
The deep multi-view stereo (MVS) and stereo matching approaches generally construct 3D cost volumes to regularize and regress the output depth or disparity. These methods are limited when high-resolution outputs are needed since the memory and time costs grow cubically as the volume resolution increases. In this paper, we propose a both memory and time efficient cost volume formulation that is complementary to existing multi-view stereo and stereo matching approaches based on 3D cost volumes. First, the proposed cost volume is built upon a standard feature pyramid encoding geometry and context at gradually finer scales. Then, we can narrow the depth (or disparity) range of each stage by the depth (or disparity) map from the previous stage. With gradually higher cost volume resolution and adaptive adjustment of depth (or disparity) intervals, the output is recovered in a coarser to fine manner. We apply the cascade cost volume to the representative MVS-Net, and obtain a 23.1% improvement on DTU benchmark (1st place), with 50.6% and 74.2% reduction in GPU memory and run-time. It is also the state-of-the-art learning-based method on Tanks and Temples benchmark. The statistics of accuracy, run-time and GPU memory on other representative stereo CNNs also validate the effectiveness of our proposed method.

458
Differentiable Volumetric Rendering: Learning Implicit 3D Representations without 3D Supervision
2019-12-16
Learning-based 3D reconstruction methods have shown impressive results. However, most methods require 3D supervision which is often hard to obtain for real-world datasets. Recently, several works have proposed differentiable rendering techniques to train reconstruction models from RGB images. Unfortunately, these approaches are currently restricted to voxel- and mesh-based representations, suffering from discretization or low resolution. In this work, we propose a differentiable rendering formulation for implicit shape and texture representations. Implicit representations have recently gained popularity as they represent shape and texture continuously. Our key insight is that depth gradients can be derived analytically using the concept of implicit differentiation. This allows us to learn implicit shape and texture representations directly from RGB images. We experimentally show that our single-view reconstructions rival those learned with full 3D supervision. Moreover, we find that our method can be used for multi-view 3D reconstruction, directly resulting in watertight meshes.

459
SDFDiff: Differentiable Rendering of Signed Distance Fields for 3D Shape Optimization
2019-12-15
We propose SDFDiff, a novel approach for image-based shape optimization using differentiable rendering of 3D shapes represented by signed distance functions (SDFs). Compared to other representations, SDFs have the advantage that they can represent shapes with arbitrary topology, and that they guarantee watertight surfaces. We apply our approach to the problem of multi-view 3D reconstruction, where we achieve high reconstruction quality and can capture complex topology of 3D objects. In addition, we employ a multi-resolution strategy to obtain a robust optimization algorithm. We further demonstrate that our SDF-based differentiable renderer can be integrated with deep learning models, which opens up options for learning approaches on 3D objects without 3D supervision. In particular, we apply our method to single-view 3D reconstruction and achieve state-of-the-art results.

461
Cost Volume Pyramid Based Depth Inference for Multi-View Stereo
2019-12-18
We propose a cost volume-based neural network for depth inference from multi-view images. We demonstrate that building a cost volume pyramid in a coarse-to-fine manner instead of constructing a cost volume at a fixed resolution leads to a compact, lightweight network and allows us inferring high resolution depth maps to achieve better reconstruction results. To this end, we first build a cost volume based on uniform sampling of fronto-parallel planes across the entire depth range at the coarsest resolution of an image. Then, given current depth estimate, we construct new cost volumes iteratively on the pixelwise depth residual to perform depth map refinement. While sharing similar insight with Point-MVSNet as predicting and refining depth iteratively, we show that working on cost volume pyramid can lead to a more compact, yet efficient network structure compared with the Point-MVSNet on 3D points. We further provide detailed analyses of the relation between (residual) depth sampling and image resolution, which serves as a principle for building compact cost volume pyramid. Experimental results on benchmark datasets show that our model can perform 6x faster and has similar performance as state-of-the-art methods. Code is available at https://github.com/JiayuYANG/CVP-MVSNet

463
Learning to Generate Dense Point Clouds with Textures on Multiple Categories
2019-12-22
3D reconstruction from images is a core problem in computer vision. With recent advances in deep learning, it has become possible to recover plausible 3D shapes even from single RGB images for the first time. However, obtaining detailed geometry and texture for objects with arbitrary topology remains challenging. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for reconstructing point clouds from RGB images. Unlike other methods, we can recover dense point clouds with hundreds of thousands of points, and we also include RGB textures. In addition, we train our model on multiple categories which leads to superior generalization to unseen categories compared to previous techniques. We achieve this using a two-stage approach, where we first infer an object coordinate map from the input RGB image, and then obtain the final point cloud using a reprojection and completion step. We show results on standard benchmarks that demonstrate the advantages of our technique. Code is available at https://github.com/TaoHuUMD/3D-Reconstruction.

464
Graph-Based Parallel Large Scale Structure from Motion
2019-12-23
While Structure from Motion (SfM) achieves great success in 3D reconstruction, it still meets challenges on large scale scenes. In this work, large scale SfM is deemed as a graph problem, and we tackle it in a divide-and-conquer manner. Firstly, the images clustering algorithm divides images into clusters with strong connectivity, leading to robust local reconstructions. Then followed with an image expansion step, the connection and completeness of scenes are enhanced by expanding along with a maximum spanning tree. After local reconstructions, we construct a minimum spanning tree (MinST) to find accurate similarity transformations. Then the MinST is transformed into a Minimum Height Tree (MHT) to find a proper anchor node and is further utilized to prevent error accumulation. When evaluated on different kinds of datasets, our approach shows superiority over the state-of-the-art in accuracy and efficiency. Our algorithm is open-sourced at https://github.com/AIBluefisher/GraphSfM.

465
Learning 3D Human Shape and Pose from Dense Body Parts
2019-12-31
Reconstructing 3D human shape and pose from monocular images is challenging despite the promising results achieved by the most recent learning-based methods. The commonly occurred misalignment comes from the facts that the mapping from images to the model space is highly non-linear and the rotation-based pose representation of body models is prone to result in the drift of joint positions. In this work, we investigate learning 3D human shape and pose from dense correspondences of body parts and propose a Decompose-and-aggregate Network (DaNet) to address these issues. DaNet adopts the dense correspondence maps, which densely build a bridge between 2D pixels and 3D vertices, as intermediate representations to facilitate the learning of 2D-to-3D mapping. The prediction modules of DaNet are decomposed into one global stream and multiple local streams to enable global and fine-grained perceptions for the shape and pose predictions, respectively. Messages from local streams are further aggregated to enhance the robust prediction of the rotation-based poses, where a position-aided rotation feature refinement strategy is proposed to exploit spatial relationships between body joints. Moreover, a Part-based Dropout (PartDrop) strategy is introduced to drop out dense information from intermediate representations during training, encouraging the network to focus on more complementary body parts as well as neighboring position features. The efficacy of the proposed method is validated on both indoor and real-world datasets including Human3.6M, UP3D, COCO, and 3DPW, showing that our method could significantly improve the reconstruction performance in comparison with previous state-of-the-art methods. Our code is publicly available at https://hongwenzhang.github.io/dense2mesh .

468
Synergetic Reconstruction from 2D Pose and 3D Motion for Wide-Space Multi-Person Video Motion Capture in the Wild
2020-01-16
Although many studies have investigated markerless motion capture, the technology has not been applied to real sports or concerts. In this paper, we propose a markerless motion capture method with spatiotemporal accuracy and smoothness from multiple cameras in wide-space and multi-person environments. The proposed method predicts each person's 3D pose and determines the bounding box of multi-camera images small enough. This prediction and spatiotemporal filtering based on human skeletal model enables 3D reconstruction of the person and demonstrates high-accuracy. The accurate 3D reconstruction is then used to predict the bounding box of each camera image in the next frame. This is feedback from the 3D motion to 2D pose, and provides a synergetic effect on the overall performance of video motion capture. We evaluated the proposed method using various datasets and a real sports field. The experimental results demonstrate that the mean per joint position error (MPJPE) is 31.5 mm and the percentage of correct parts (PCP) is 99.5% for five people dynamically moving while satisfying the range of motion (RoM). Video demonstration, datasets, and additional materials are posted on our project page.

469
Deep NRSfM++: Towards Unsupervised 2D-3D Lifting in the Wild
2020-01-27
The recovery of 3D shape and pose from 2D landmarks stemming from a large ensemble of images can be viewed as a non-rigid structure from motion (NRSfM) problem. Classical NRSfM approaches, however, are problematic as they rely on heuristic priors on the 3D structure (e.g. low rank) that do not scale well to large datasets. Learning-based methods are showing the potential to reconstruct a much broader set of 3D structures than classical methods -- dramatically expanding the importance of NRSfM to atemporal unsupervised 2D to 3D lifting. Hitherto, these learning approaches have not been able to effectively model perspective cameras or handle missing/occluded points -- limiting their applicability to in-the-wild datasets. In this paper, we present a generalized strategy for improving learning-based NRSfM methods to tackle the above issues. Our approach, Deep NRSfM++, achieves state-of-the-art performance across numerous large-scale benchmarks, outperforming both classical and learning-based 2D-3D lifting methods.

473
3D Dynamic Scene Graphs: Actionable Spatial Perception with Places, Objects, and Humans
2020-02-15
We present a unified representation for actionable spatial perception: 3D Dynamic Scene Graphs. Scene graphs are directed graphs where nodes represent entities in the scene (e.g. objects, walls, rooms), and edges represent relations (e.g. inclusion, adjacency) among nodes. Dynamic scene graphs (DSGs) extend this notion to represent dynamic scenes with moving agents (e.g. humans, robots), and to include actionable information that supports planning and decision-making (e.g. spatio-temporal relations, topology at different levels of abstraction). Our second contribution is to provide the first fully automatic Spatial PerceptIon eNgine(SPIN) to build a DSG from visual-inertial data. We integrate state-of-the-art techniques for object and human detection and pose estimation, and we describe how to robustly infer object, robot, and human nodes in crowded scenes. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper that reconciles visual-inertial SLAM and dense human mesh tracking. Moreover, we provide algorithms to obtain hierarchical representations of indoor environments (e.g. places, structures, rooms) and their relations. Our third contribution is to demonstrate the proposed spatial perception engine in a photo-realistic Unity-based simulator, where we assess its robustness and expressiveness. Finally, we discuss the implications of our proposal on modern robotics applications. 3D Dynamic Scene Graphs can have a profound impact on planning and decision-making, human-robot interaction, long-term autonomy, and scene prediction. A video abstract is available at https://youtu.be/SWbofjhyPzI

477
Leveraging Photogrammetric Mesh Models for Aerial-Ground Feature Point Matching Toward Integrated 3D Reconstruction
2020-02-21
Integration of aerial and ground images has been proved as an efficient approach to enhance the surface reconstruction in urban environments. However, as the first step, the feature point matching between aerial and ground images is remarkably difficult, due to the large differences in viewpoint and illumination conditions. Previous studies based on geometry-aware image rectification have alleviated this problem, but the performance and convenience of this strategy is limited by several flaws, e.g. quadratic image pairs, segregated extraction of descriptors and occlusions. To address these problems, we propose a novel approach: leveraging photogrammetric mesh models for aerial-ground image matching. The methods of this proposed approach have linear time complexity with regard to the number of images, can explicitly handle low overlap using multi-view images and can be directly injected into off-the-shelf structure-from-motion (SfM) and multi-view stereo (MVS) solutions. First, aerial and ground images are reconstructed separately and initially co-registered through weak georeferencing data. Second, aerial models are rendered to the initial ground views, in which the color, depth and normal images are obtained. Then, the synthesized color images and the corresponding ground images are matched by comparing the descriptors, filtered by local geometrical information, and then propagated to the aerial views using depth images and patch-based matching. Experimental evaluations using various datasets confirm the superior performance of the proposed methods in aerial-ground image matching. In addition, incorporation of the existing SfM and MVS solutions into these methods enables more complete and accurate models to be directly obtained.

478
DeepCalib: a deep learning approach for automatic intrinsic calibration of wide field-of-view cameras
2018-12-15
Calibration of wide field-of-view cameras is a fundamental step for numerous visual media production applications, such as 3D reconstruction, image undistortion, augmented reality and camera motion estimation. However, existing calibration methods require multiple images of a calibration pattern (typically a checkerboard), assume the presence of lines, require manual interaction and/or need an image sequence. In contrast, we present a novel fully automatic deep learning-based approach that overcomes all these limitations and works with a single image of general scenes. Our approach builds upon the recent developments in deep Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN): our network automatically estimates the intrinsic parameters of the camera (focal length and distortion parameter) from a single input image. In order to train the CNN, we leverage the great amount of omnidirectional images available on the Internet to automatically generate a large-scale dataset composed of millions of wide field-of-view images with ground truth intrinsic parameters. Experiments successfully demonstrated the quality of our results, both quantitatively and qualitatively.

479
Extremely Dense Point Correspondences using a Learned Feature Descriptor
2020-03-02
High-quality 3D reconstructions from endoscopy video play an important role in many clinical applications, including surgical navigation where they enable direct video-CT registration. While many methods exist for general multi-view 3D reconstruction, these methods often fail to deliver satisfactory performance on endoscopic video. Part of the reason is that local descriptors that establish pair-wise point correspondences, and thus drive reconstruction, struggle when confronted with the texture-scarce surface of anatomy. Learning-based dense descriptors usually have larger receptive fields enabling the encoding of global information, which can be used to disambiguate matches. In this work, we present an effective self-supervised training scheme and novel loss design for dense descriptor learning. In direct comparison to recent local and dense descriptors on an in-house sinus endoscopy dataset, we demonstrate that our proposed dense descriptor can generalize to unseen patients and scopes, thereby largely improving the performance of Structure from Motion (SfM) in terms of model density and completeness. We also evaluate our method on a public dense optical flow dataset and a small-scale SfM public dataset to further demonstrate the effectiveness and generality of our method. The source code is available at https://github.com/lppllppl920/DenseDescriptorLearning-Pytorch.

480
Implicit Functions in Feature Space for 3D Shape Reconstruction and Completion
2020-03-03
While many works focus on 3D reconstruction from images, in this paper, we focus on 3D shape reconstruction and completion from a variety of 3D inputs, which are deficient in some respect: low and high resolution voxels, sparse and dense point clouds, complete or incomplete. Processing of such 3D inputs is an increasingly important problem as they are the output of 3D scanners, which are becoming more accessible, and are the intermediate output of 3D computer vision algorithms. Recently, learned implicit functions have shown great promise as they produce continuous reconstructions. However, we identified two limitations in reconstruction from 3D inputs: 1) details present in the input data are not retained, and 2) poor reconstruction of articulated humans. To solve this, we propose Implicit Feature Networks (IF-Nets), which deliver continuous outputs, can handle multiple topologies, and complete shapes for missing or sparse input data retaining the nice properties of recent learned implicit functions, but critically they can also retain detail when it is present in the input data, and can reconstruct articulated humans. Our work differs from prior work in two crucial aspects. First, instead of using a single vector to encode a 3D shape, we extract a learnable 3-dimensional multi-scale tensor of deep features, which is aligned with the original Euclidean space embedding the shape. Second, instead of classifying x-y-z point coordinates directly, we classify deep features extracted from the tensor at a continuous query point. We show that this forces our model to make decisions based on global and local shape structure, as opposed to point coordinates, which are arbitrary under Euclidean transformations. Experiments demonstrate that IF-Nets clearly outperform prior work in 3D object reconstruction in ShapeNet, and obtain significantly more accurate 3D human reconstructions.

483
Convolutional Occupancy Networks
2020-03-10
Recently, implicit neural representations have gained popularity for learning-based 3D reconstruction. While demonstrating promising results, most implicit approaches are limited to comparably simple geometry of single objects and do not scale to more complicated or large-scale scenes. The key limiting factor of implicit methods is their simple fully-connected network architecture which does not allow for integrating local information in the observations or incorporating inductive biases such as translational equivariance. In this paper, we propose Convolutional Occupancy Networks, a more flexible implicit representation for detailed reconstruction of objects and 3D scenes. By combining convolutional encoders with implicit occupancy decoders, our model incorporates inductive biases, enabling structured reasoning in 3D space. We investigate the effectiveness of the proposed representation by reconstructing complex geometry from noisy point clouds and low-resolution voxel representations. We empirically find that our method enables the fine-grained implicit 3D reconstruction of single objects, scales to large indoor scenes, and generalizes well from synthetic to real data.

486
Self-supervised Single-view 3D Reconstruction via Semantic Consistency
2020-03-13
We learn a self-supervised, single-view 3D reconstruction model that predicts the 3D mesh shape, texture and camera pose of a target object with a collection of 2D images and silhouettes. The proposed method does not necessitate 3D supervision, manually annotated keypoints, multi-view images of an object or a prior 3D template. The key insight of our work is that objects can be represented as a collection of deformable parts, and each part is semantically coherent across different instances of the same category (e.g., wings on birds and wheels on cars). Therefore, by leveraging self-supervisedly learned part segmentation of a large collection of category-specific images, we can effectively enforce semantic consistency between the reconstructed meshes and the original images. This significantly reduces ambiguities during joint prediction of shape and camera pose of an object, along with texture. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to try and solve the single-view reconstruction problem without a category-specific template mesh or semantic keypoints. Thus our model can easily generalize to various object categories without such labels, e.g., horses, penguins, etc. Through a variety of experiments on several categories of deformable and rigid objects, we demonstrate that our unsupervised method performs comparably if not better than existing category-specific reconstruction methods learned with supervision.

488
Reconstructing Sinus Anatomy from Endoscopic Video -- Towards a Radiation-free Approach for Quantitative Longitudinal Assessment
2020-03-18
Reconstructing accurate 3D surface models of sinus anatomy directly from an endoscopic video is a promising avenue for cross-sectional and longitudinal analysis to better understand the relationship between sinus anatomy and surgical outcomes. We present a patient-specific, learning-based method for 3D reconstruction of sinus surface anatomy directly and only from endoscopic videos. We demonstrate the effectiveness and accuracy of our method on in and ex vivo data where we compare to sparse reconstructions from Structure from Motion, dense reconstruction from COLMAP, and ground truth anatomy from CT. Our textured reconstructions are watertight and enable measurement of clinically relevant parameters in good agreement with CT. The source code is available at https://github.com/lppllppl920/DenseReconstruction-Pytorch.

491
ASLFeat: Learning Local Features of Accurate Shape and Localization
2020-03-23
This work focuses on mitigating two limitations in the joint learning of local feature detectors and descriptors. First, the ability to estimate the local shape (scale, orientation, etc.) of feature points is often neglected during dense feature extraction, while the shape-awareness is crucial to acquire stronger geometric invariance. Second, the localization accuracy of detected keypoints is not sufficient to reliably recover camera geometry, which has become the bottleneck in tasks such as 3D reconstruction. In this paper, we present ASLFeat, with three light-weight yet effective modifications to mitigate above issues. First, we resort to deformable convolutional networks to densely estimate and apply local transformation. Second, we take advantage of the inherent feature hierarchy to restore spatial resolution and low-level details for accurate keypoint localization. Finally, we use a peakiness measurement to relate feature responses and derive more indicative detection scores. The effect of each modification is thoroughly studied, and the evaluation is extensively conducted across a variety of practical scenarios. State-of-the-art results are reported that demonstrate the superiority of our methods.

492
Multiview Neural Surface Reconstruction by Disentangling Geometry and Appearance
2020-03-22
In this work we address the challenging problem of multiview 3D surface reconstruction. We introduce a neural network architecture that simultaneously learns the unknown geometry, camera parameters, and a neural renderer that approximates the light reflected from the surface towards the camera. The geometry is represented as a zero level-set of a neural network, while the neural renderer, derived from the rendering equation, is capable of (implicitly) modeling a wide set of lighting conditions and materials. We trained our network on real world 2D images of objects with different material properties, lighting conditions, and noisy camera initializations from the DTU MVS dataset. We found our model to produce state of the art 3D surface reconstructions with high fidelity, resolution and detail.

493
Deep Local Shapes: Learning Local SDF Priors for Detailed 3D Reconstruction
2020-03-24
Efficiently reconstructing complex and intricate surfaces at scale is a long-standing goal in machine perception. To address this problem we introduce Deep Local Shapes (DeepLS), a deep shape representation that enables encoding and reconstruction of high-quality 3D shapes without prohibitive memory requirements. DeepLS replaces the dense volumetric signed distance function (SDF) representation used in traditional surface reconstruction systems with a set of locally learned continuous SDFs defined by a neural network, inspired by recent work such as DeepSDF. Unlike DeepSDF, which represents an object-level SDF with a neural network and a single latent code, we store a grid of independent latent codes, each responsible for storing information about surfaces in a small local neighborhood. This decomposition of scenes into local shapes simplifies the prior distribution that the network must learn, and also enables efficient inference. We demonstrate the effectiveness and generalization power of DeepLS by showing object shape encoding and reconstructions of full scenes, where DeepLS delivers high compression, accuracy, and local shape completion.

495
Learning Implicit Surface Light Fields
2020-03-27
Implicit representations of 3D objects have recently achieved impressive results on learning-based 3D reconstruction tasks. While existing works use simple texture models to represent object appearance, photo-realistic image synthesis requires reasoning about the complex interplay of light, geometry and surface properties. In this work, we propose a novel implicit representation for capturing the visual appearance of an object in terms of its surface light field. In contrast to existing representations, our implicit model represents surface light fields in a continuous fashion and independent of the geometry. Moreover, we condition the surface light field with respect to the location and color of a small light source. Compared to traditional surface light field models, this allows us to manipulate the light source and relight the object using environment maps. We further demonstrate the capabilities of our model to predict the visual appearance of an unseen object from a single real RGB image and corresponding 3D shape information. As evidenced by our experiments, our model is able to infer rich visual appearance including shadows and specular reflections. Finally, we show that the proposed representation can be embedded into a variational auto-encoder for generating novel appearances that conform to the specified illumination conditions.

497
Learning Unsupervised Hierarchical Part Decomposition of 3D Objects from a Single RGB Image
2020-04-02
Humans perceive the 3D world as a set of distinct objects that are characterized by various low-level (geometry, reflectance) and high-level (connectivity, adjacency, symmetry) properties. Recent methods based on convolutional neural networks (CNNs) demonstrated impressive progress in 3D reconstruction, even when using a single 2D image as input. However, the majority of these methods focuses on recovering the local 3D geometry of an object without considering its part-based decomposition or relations between parts. We address this challenging problem by proposing a novel formulation that allows to jointly recover the geometry of a 3D object as a set of primitives as well as their latent hierarchical structure without part-level supervision. Our model recovers the higher level structural decomposition of various objects in the form of a binary tree of primitives, where simple parts are represented with fewer primitives and more complex parts are modeled with more components. Our experiments on the ShapeNet and D-FAUST datasets demonstrate that considering the organization of parts indeed facilitates reasoning about 3D geometry.

499
Occlusion-Aware Depth Estimation with Adaptive Normal Constraints
2020-04-02
We present a new learning-based method for multi-frame depth estimation from a color video, which is a fundamental problem in scene understanding, robot navigation or handheld 3D reconstruction. While recent learning-based methods estimate depth at high accuracy, 3D point clouds exported from their depth maps often fail to preserve important geometric feature (e.g., corners, edges, planes) of man-made scenes. Widely-used pixel-wise depth errors do not specifically penalize inconsistency on these features. These inaccuracies are particularly severe when subsequent depth reconstructions are accumulated in an attempt to scan a full environment with man-made objects with this kind of features. Our depth estimation algorithm therefore introduces a Combined Normal Map (CNM) constraint, which is designed to better preserve high-curvature features and global planar regions. In order to further improve the depth estimation accuracy, we introduce a new occlusion-aware strategy that aggregates initial depth predictions from multiple adjacent views into one final depth map and one occlusion probability map for the current reference view. Our method outperforms the state-of-the-art in terms of depth estimation accuracy, and preserves essential geometric features of man-made indoor scenes much better than other algorithms.

502
Few-Shot Single-View 3-D Object Reconstruction with Compositional Priors
2020-04-14
The impressive performance of deep convolutional neural networks in single-view 3D reconstruction suggests that these models perform non-trivial reasoning about the 3D structure of the output space. However, recent work has challenged this belief, showing that complex encoder-decoder architectures perform similarly to nearest-neighbor baselines or simple linear decoder models that exploit large amounts of per category data in standard benchmarks. On the other hand settings where 3D shape must be inferred for new categories with few examples are more natural and require models that generalize about shapes. In this work we demonstrate experimentally that naive baselines do not apply when the goal is to learn to reconstruct novel objects using very few examples, and that in a \emph{few-shot} learning setting, the network must learn concepts that can be applied to new categories, avoiding rote memorization. To address deficiencies in existing approaches to this problem, we propose three approaches that efficiently integrate a class prior into a 3D reconstruction model, allowing to account for intra-class variability and imposing an implicit compositional structure that the model should learn. Experiments on the popular ShapeNet database demonstrate that our method significantly outperform existing baselines on this task in the few-shot setting.

504
Through the Looking Glass: Neural 3D Reconstruction of Transparent Shapes
2020-04-22
Recovering the 3D shape of transparent objects using a small number of unconstrained natural images is an ill-posed problem. Complex light paths induced by refraction and reflection have prevented both traditional and deep multiview stereo from solving this challenge. We propose a physically-based network to recover 3D shape of transparent objects using a few images acquired with a mobile phone camera, under a known but arbitrary environment map. Our novel contributions include a normal representation that enables the network to model complex light transport through local computation, a rendering layer that models refractions and reflections, a cost volume specifically designed for normal refinement of transparent shapes and a feature mapping based on predicted normals for 3D point cloud reconstruction. We render a synthetic dataset to encourage the model to learn refractive light transport across different views. Our experiments show successful recovery of high-quality 3D geometry for complex transparent shapes using as few as 5-12 natural images. Code and data are publicly released.

510
HDD-Net: Hybrid Detector Descriptor with Mutual Interactive Learning
2020-05-12
Local feature extraction remains an active research area due to the advances in fields such as SLAM, 3D reconstructions, or AR applications. The success in these applications relies on the performance of the feature detector and descriptor. While the detector-descriptor interaction of most methods is based on unifying in single network detections and descriptors, we propose a method that treats both extractions independently and focuses on their interaction in the learning process rather than by parameter sharing. We formulate the classical hard-mining triplet loss as a new detector optimisation term to refine candidate positions based on the descriptor map. We propose a dense descriptor that uses a multi-scale approach and a hybrid combination of hand-crafted and learned features to obtain rotation and scale robustness by design. We evaluate our method extensively on different benchmarks and show improvements over the state of the art in terms of image matching on HPatches and 3D reconstruction quality while keeping on par on camera localisation tasks.

511
Unpaired Motion Style Transfer from Video to Animation
2020-05-12
Transferring the motion style from one animation clip to another, while preserving the motion content of the latter, has been a long-standing problem in character animation. Most existing data-driven approaches are supervised and rely on paired data, where motions with the same content are performed in different styles. In addition, these approaches are limited to transfer of styles that were seen during training. In this paper, we present a novel data-driven framework for motion style transfer, which learns from an unpaired collection of motions with style labels, and enables transferring motion styles not observed during training. Furthermore, our framework is able to extract motion styles directly from videos, bypassing 3D reconstruction, and apply them to the 3D input motion. Our style transfer network encodes motions into two latent codes, for content and for style, each of which plays a different role in the decoding (synthesis) process. While the content code is decoded into the output motion by several temporal convolutional layers, the style code modifies deep features via temporally invariant adaptive instance normalization (AdaIN). Moreover, while the content code is encoded from 3D joint rotations, we learn a common embedding for style from either 3D or 2D joint positions, enabling style extraction from videos. Our results are comparable to the state-of-the-art, despite not requiring paired training data, and outperform other methods when transferring previously unseen styles. To our knowledge, we are the first to demonstrate style transfer directly from videos to 3D animations - an ability which enables one to extend the set of style examples far beyond motions captured by MoCap systems.

512
DeepFaceFlow: In-the-wild Dense 3D Facial Motion Estimation
2020-05-14
Dense 3D facial motion capture from only monocular in-the-wild pairs of RGB images is a highly challenging problem with numerous applications, ranging from facial expression recognition to facial reenactment. In this work, we propose DeepFaceFlow, a robust, fast, and highly-accurate framework for the dense estimation of 3D non-rigid facial flow between pairs of monocular images. Our DeepFaceFlow framework was trained and tested on two very large-scale facial video datasets, one of them of our own collection and annotation, with the aid of occlusion-aware and 3D-based loss function. We conduct comprehensive experiments probing different aspects of our approach and demonstrating its improved performance against state-of-the-art flow and 3D reconstruction methods. Furthermore, we incorporate our framework in a full-head state-of-the-art facial video synthesis method and demonstrate the ability of our method in better representing and capturing the facial dynamics, resulting in a highly-realistic facial video synthesis. Given registered pairs of images, our framework generates 3D flow maps at ~60 fps.

514
AutoSweep: Recovering 3D Editable Objectsfrom a Single Photograph
2020-05-27
This paper presents a fully automatic framework for extracting editable 3D objects directly from a single photograph. Unlike previous methods which recover either depth maps, point clouds, or mesh surfaces, we aim to recover 3D objects with semantic parts and can be directly edited. We base our work on the assumption that most human-made objects are constituted by parts and these parts can be well represented by generalized primitives. Our work makes an attempt towards recovering two types of primitive-shaped objects, namely, generalized cuboids and generalized cylinders. To this end, we build a novel instance-aware segmentation network for accurate part separation. Our GeoNet outputs a set of smooth part-level masks labeled as profiles and bodies. Then in a key stage, we simultaneously identify profile-body relations and recover 3D parts by sweeping the recognized profile along their body contour and jointly optimize the geometry to align with the recovered masks. Qualitative and quantitative experiments show that our algorithm can recover high quality 3D models and outperforms existing methods in both instance segmentation and 3D reconstruction. The dataset and code of AutoSweep are available at https://chenxin.tech/AutoSweep.html.

519
DeepDeform: Learning Non-Rigid RGB-D Reconstruction With Semi-Supervised Data
2020-06-01
Applying data-driven approaches to non-rigid 3D reconstruction has been difficult, which we believe can be attributed to the lack of a large-scale training corpus. Unfortunately, this method fails for important cases such as highly non-rigid deformations. We first address this problem of lack of data by introducing a novel semi-supervised strategy to obtain dense inter-frame correspondences from a sparse set of annotations. This way, we obtain a large dataset of 400 scenes, over 390,000 RGB-D frames, and 5,533 densely aligned frame pairs; in addition, we provide a test set along with several metrics for evaluation. Based on this corpus, we introduce a data-driven non-rigid feature matching approach, which we integrate into an optimization-based reconstruction pipeline. Here, we propose a new neural network that operates on RGB-D frames, while maintaining robustness under large non-rigid deformations and producing accurate predictions. Our approach significantly outperforms existing non-rigid reconstruction methods that do not use learned data terms, as well as learning-based approaches that only use self-supervision.

521
Robust Learning Through Cross-Task Consistency
2020-06-01
Visual perception entails solving a wide set of tasks (e.g., object detection, depth estimation, etc). The predictions made for different tasks out of one image are not independent, and therefore, are expected to be 'consistent'. We propose a flexible and fully computational framework for learning while enforcing Cross-Task Consistency (X-TAC). The proposed formulation is based on 'inference path invariance' over an arbitrary graph of prediction domains. We observe that learning with cross-task consistency leads to more accurate predictions, better generalization to out-of-distribution samples, and improved sample efficiency. This framework also leads to a powerful unsupervised quantity, called 'Consistency Energy, based on measuring the intrinsic consistency of the system. Consistency Energy well correlates with the supervised error (r=0.67), thus it can be employed as an unsupervised robustness metric as well as for detection of out-of-distribution inputs (AUC=0.99). The evaluations were performed on multiple datasets, including Taskonomy, Replica, CocoDoom, and ApolloScape.

523
Robust Learning Through Cross-Task Consistency
2020-06-07
Visual perception entails solving a wide set of tasks, e.g., object detection, depth estimation, etc. The predictions made for multiple tasks from the same image are not independent, and therefore, are expected to be consistent. We propose a broadly applicable and fully computational method for augmenting learning with Cross-Task Consistency. The proposed formulation is based on inference-path invariance over a graph of arbitrary tasks. We observe that learning with cross-task consistency leads to more accurate predictions and better generalization to out-of-distribution inputs. This framework also leads to an informative unsupervised quantity, called Consistency Energy, based on measuring the intrinsic consistency of the system. Consistency Energy correlates well with the supervised error (r=0.67), thus it can be employed as an unsupervised confidence metric as well as for detection of out-of-distribution inputs (ROC-AUC=0.95). The evaluations are performed on multiple datasets, including Taskonomy, Replica, CocoDoom, and ApolloScape, and they benchmark cross-task consistency versus various baselines including conventional multi-task learning, cycle consistency, and analytical consistency.

525
Coherent Reconstruction of Multiple Humans from a Single Image
2020-06-15
In this work, we address the problem of multi-person 3D pose estimation from a single image. A typical regression approach in the top-down setting of this problem would first detect all humans and then reconstruct each one of them independently. However, this type of prediction suffers from incoherent results, e.g., interpenetration and inconsistent depth ordering between the people in the scene. Our goal is to train a single network that learns to avoid these problems and generate a coherent 3D reconstruction of all the humans in the scene. To this end, a key design choice is the incorporation of the SMPL parametric body model in our top-down framework, which enables the use of two novel losses. First, a distance field-based collision loss penalizes interpenetration among the reconstructed people. Second, a depth ordering-aware loss reasons about occlusions and promotes a depth ordering of people that leads to a rendering which is consistent with the annotated instance segmentation. This provides depth supervision signals to the network, even if the image has no explicit 3D annotations. The experiments show that our approach outperforms previous methods on standard 3D pose benchmarks, while our proposed losses enable more coherent reconstruction in natural images. The project website with videos, results, and code can be found at: https://jiangwenpl.github.io/multiperson

527
3D Reconstruction of Novel Object Shapes from Single Images
2020-06-14
Accurately predicting the 3D shape of any arbitrary object in any pose from a single image is a key goal of computer vision research. This is challenging as it requires a model to learn a representation that can infer both the visible and occluded portions of any object using a limited training set. A training set that covers all possible object shapes is inherently infeasible. Such learning-based approaches are inherently vulnerable to overfitting, and successfully implementing them is a function of both the architecture design and the training approach. We present an extensive investigation of factors specific to architecture design, training, experiment design, and evaluation that influence reconstruction performance and measurement. We show that our proposed SDFNet achieves state-of-the-art performance on seen and unseen shapes relative to existing methods GenRe and OccNet. We provide the first large-scale evaluation of single image shape reconstruction to unseen objects. The source code, data and trained models can be found on https://github.com/rehg-lab/3DShapeGen.

533
SPSG: Self-Supervised Photometric Scene Generation from RGB-D Scans
2020-06-25
We present SPSG, a novel approach to generate high-quality, colored 3D models of scenes from RGB-D scan observations by learning to infer unobserved scene geometry and color in a self-supervised fashion. Our self-supervised approach learns to jointly inpaint geometry and color by correlating an incomplete RGB-D scan with a more complete version of that scan. Notably, rather than relying on 3D reconstruction losses to inform our 3D geometry and color reconstruction, we propose adversarial and perceptual losses operating on 2D renderings in order to achieve high-resolution, high-quality colored reconstructions of scenes. This exploits the high-resolution, self-consistent signal from individual raw RGB-D frames, in contrast to fused 3D reconstructions of the frames which exhibit inconsistencies from view-dependent effects, such as color balancing or pose inconsistencies. Thus, by informing our 3D scene generation directly through 2D signal, we produce high-quality colored reconstructions of 3D scenes, outperforming state of the art on both synthetic and real data.

536
The Covering-Assignment Problem for Swarm-powered Ad-hoc Clouds: A Distributed 3D Mapping Use-case
2020-04-21
The popularity of drones is rapidly increasing across the different sectors of the economy. Aerial capabilities and relatively low costs make drones the perfect solution to improve the efficiency of those operations that are typically carried out by humans (e.g., building inspection, photo collection). The potential of drone applications can be pushed even further when they are operated in fleets and in a fully autonomous manner, acting de facto as a drone swarm. Besides automating field operations, a drone swarm can serve as an ad-hoc cloud infrastructure built on top of computing and storage resources available across the swarm members and other connected elements. Even in the absence of Internet connectivity, this cloud can serve the workloads generated by the swarm members themselves, as well as by the field agents operating within the area of interest. By considering the practical example of a swarm-powered 3D reconstruction application, we present a new optimization problem for the efficient generation and execution, on top of swarm-powered ad-hoc cloud infrastructure, of multi-node computing workloads subject to data geolocation and clustering constraints. The objective is the minimization of the overall computing times, including both networking delays caused by the inter-drone data transmission and computation delays. We prove that the problem is NP-hard and present two combinatorial formulations to model it. Computational results on the solution of the formulations show that one of them can be used to solve, within the configured time-limit, more than 50% of the considered real-world instances involving up to two hundred images and six drones.

541
Spatial Semantic Embedding Network: Fast 3D Instance Segmentation with Deep Metric Learning
2020-07-07
We propose spatial semantic embedding network (SSEN), a simple, yet efficient algorithm for 3D instance segmentation using deep metric learning. The raw 3D reconstruction of an indoor environment suffers from occlusions, noise, and is produced without any meaningful distinction between individual entities. For high-level intelligent tasks from a large scale scene, 3D instance segmentation recognizes individual instances of objects. We approach the instance segmentation by simply learning the correct embedding space that maps individual instances of objects into distinct clusters that reflect both spatial and semantic information. Unlike previous approaches that require complex pre-processing or post-processing, our implementation is compact and fast with competitive performance, maintaining scalability on large scenes with high resolution voxels. We demonstrate the state-of-the-art performance of our algorithm in the ScanNet 3D instance segmentation benchmark on AP score.

546
Fast and Robust Iterative Closest Point
2020-07-15
The Iterative Closest Point (ICP) algorithm and its variants are a fundamental technique for rigid registration between two point sets, with wide applications in different areas from robotics to 3D reconstruction. The main drawbacks for ICP are its slow convergence as well as its sensitivity to outliers, missing data, and partial overlaps. Recent work such as Sparse ICP achieves robustness via sparsity optimization at the cost of computational speed. In this paper, we propose a new method for robust registration with fast convergence. First, we show that the classical point-to-point ICP can be treated as a majorization-minimization (MM) algorithm, and propose an Anderson acceleration approach to speed up its convergence. In addition, we introduce a robust error metric based on the Welsch's function, which is minimized efficiently using the MM algorithm with Anderson acceleration. On challenging datasets with noises and partial overlaps, we achieve similar or better accuracy than Sparse ICP while being at least an order of magnitude faster. Finally, we extend the robust formulation to point-to-plane ICP, and solve the resulting problem using a similar Anderson-accelerated MM strategy. Our robust ICP methods improve the registration accuracy on benchmark datasets while being competitive in computational time.

547
Learning to Parse Wireframes in Images of Man-Made Environments
2020-07-15
In this paper, we propose a learning-based approach to the task of automatically extracting a "wireframe" representation for images of cluttered man-made environments. The wireframe (see Fig. 1) contains all salient straight lines and their junctions of the scene that encode efficiently and accurately large-scale geometry and object shapes. To this end, we have built a very large new dataset of over 5,000 images with wireframes thoroughly labelled by humans. We have proposed two convolutional neural networks that are suitable for extracting junctions and lines with large spatial support, respectively. The networks trained on our dataset have achieved significantly better performance than state-of-the-art methods for junction detection and line segment detection, respectively. We have conducted extensive experiments to evaluate quantitatively and qualitatively the wireframes obtained by our method, and have convincingly shown that effectively and efficiently parsing wireframes for images of man-made environments is a feasible goal within reach. Such wireframes could benefit many important visual tasks such as feature correspondence, 3D reconstruction, vision-based mapping, localization, and navigation. The data and source code are available at https://github.com/huangkuns/wireframe.

551
Single View Metrology in the Wild
2020-07-18
Most 3D reconstruction methods may only recover scene properties up to a global scale ambiguity. We present a novel approach to single view metrology that can recover the absolute scale of a scene represented by 3D heights of objects or camera height above the ground as well as camera parameters of orientation and field of view, using just a monocular image acquired in unconstrained condition. Our method relies on data-driven priors learned by a deep network specifically designed to imbibe weakly supervised constraints from the interplay of the unknown camera with 3D entities such as object heights, through estimation of bounding box projections. We leverage categorical priors for objects such as humans or cars that commonly occur in natural images, as references for scale estimation. We demonstrate state-of-the-art qualitative and quantitative results on several datasets as well as applications including virtual object insertion. Furthermore, the perceptual quality of our outputs is validated by a user study.

554
Continuous Object Representation Networks: Novel View Synthesis without Target View Supervision
2020-07-30
Novel View Synthesis (NVS) is concerned with synthesizing views under camera viewpoint transformations from one or multiple input images. NVS requires explicit reasoning about 3D object structure and unseen parts of the scene to synthesize convincing results. As a result, current approaches typically rely on supervised training with either ground truth 3D models or multiple target images. We propose Continuous Object Representation Networks (CORN), a conditional architecture that encodes an input image's geometry and appearance that map to a 3D consistent scene representation. We can train CORN with only two source images per object by combining our model with a neural renderer. A key feature of CORN is that it requires no ground truth 3D models or target view supervision. Regardless, CORN performs well on challenging tasks such as novel view synthesis and single-view 3D reconstruction and achieves performance comparable to state-of-the-art approaches that use direct supervision. For up-to-date information, data, and code, please see our project page: https://nicolaihaeni.github.io/corn/.

556
Stochastic Bundle Adjustment for Efficient and Scalable 3D Reconstruction
2020-08-02
Current bundle adjustment solvers such as the Levenberg-Marquardt (LM) algorithm are limited by the bottleneck in solving the Reduced Camera System (RCS) whose dimension is proportional to the camera number. When the problem is scaled up, this step is neither efficient in computation nor manageable for a single compute node. In this work, we propose a stochastic bundle adjustment algorithm which seeks to decompose the RCS approximately inside the LM iterations to improve the efficiency and scalability. It first reformulates the quadratic programming problem of an LM iteration based on the clustering of the visibility graph by introducing the equality constraints across clusters. Then, we propose to relax it into a chance constrained problem and solve it through sampled convex program. The relaxation is intended to eliminate the interdependence between clusters embodied by the constraints, so that a large RCS can be decomposed into independent linear sub-problems. Numerical experiments on unordered Internet image sets and sequential SLAM image sets, as well as distributed experiments on large-scale datasets, have demonstrated the high efficiency and scalability of the proposed approach. Codes are released at https://github.com/zlthinker/STBA.

560
Generative Adversarial Networks for Robust Cryo-EM Image Denoising
2020-08-17
The cryo-electron microscopy (Cryo-EM) becomes popular for macromolecular structure determination. However, the 2D images which Cryo-EM detects are of high noise and often mixed with multiple heterogeneous conformations or contamination, imposing a challenge for denoising. Traditional image denoising methods can not remove Cryo-EM image noise well when the signal-noise-ratio (SNR) of images is meager. Thus it is desired to develop new effective denoising techniques to facilitate further research such as 3D reconstruction, 2D conformation classification, and so on. In this paper, we approach the robust image denoising problem in Cryo-EM by a joint Autoencoder and Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) method. Equipped with robust $\ell_1$ Autoencoder and some designs of robust $\beta$-GANs, one can stabilize the training of GANs and achieve the state-of-the-art performance of robust denoising with low SNR data and against possible information contamination. The method is evaluated by both a heterogeneous conformational dataset on the Thermus aquaticus RNA Polymerase (RNAP) and a homogenous dataset on the Plasmodium falciparum 80S ribosome dataset (EMPIRE-10028), in terms of Mean Square Error (MSE), Peak Signal to Noise Ratio (PSNR), Structural Similarity Index Measure (SSIM), as well as heterogeneous conformation clustering. These results suggest that our proposed methodology provides an effective tool for Cryo-EM 2D image denoising. Our code is available in "https://github.com/ghl1995/denoise-gan-in-cryo-em".

561
Visibility-aware Multi-view Stereo Network
2020-08-18
Learning-based multi-view stereo (MVS) methods have demonstrated promising results. However, very few existing networks explicitly take the pixel-wise visibility into consideration, resulting in erroneous cost aggregation from occluded pixels. In this paper, we explicitly infer and integrate the pixel-wise occlusion information in the MVS network via the matching uncertainty estimation. The pair-wise uncertainty map is jointly inferred with the pair-wise depth map, which is further used as weighting guidance during the multi-view cost volume fusion. As such, the adverse influence of occluded pixels is suppressed in the cost fusion. The proposed framework Vis-MVSNet significantly improves depth accuracies in the scenes with severe occlusion. Extensive experiments are performed on DTU, BlendedMVS, and Tanks and Temples datasets to justify the effectiveness of the proposed framework.

565
Multi-Dimension Fusion Network for Light Field Spatial Super-Resolution using Dynamic Filters
2020-08-26
Light field cameras have been proved to be powerful tools for 3D reconstruction and virtual reality applications. However, the limited resolution of light field images brings a lot of difficulties for further information display and extraction. In this paper, we introduce a novel learning-based framework to improve the spatial resolution of light fields. First, features from different dimensions are parallelly extracted and fused together in our multi-dimension fusion architecture. These features are then used to generate dynamic filters, which extract subpixel information from micro-lens images and also implicitly consider the disparity information. Finally, more high-frequency details learned in the residual branch are added to the upsampled images and the final super-resolved light fields are obtained. Experimental results show that the proposed method uses fewer parameters but achieves better performances than other state-of-the-art methods in various kinds of datasets. Our reconstructed images also show sharp details and distinct lines in both sub-aperture images and epipolar plane images.

566
Canonical 3D Deformer Maps: Unifying parametric and non-parametric methods for dense weakly-supervised category reconstruction
2020-08-28
We propose the Canonical 3D Deformer Map, a new representation of the 3D shape of common object categories that can be learned from a collection of 2D images of independent objects. Our method builds in a novel way on concepts from parametric deformation models, non-parametric 3D reconstruction, and canonical embeddings, combining their individual advantages. In particular, it learns to associate each image pixel with a deformation model of the corresponding 3D object point which is canonical, i.e. intrinsic to the identity of the point and shared across objects of the category. The result is a method that, given only sparse 2D supervision at training time, can, at test time, reconstruct the 3D shape and texture of objects from single views, while establishing meaningful dense correspondences between object instances. It also achieves state-of-the-art results in dense 3D reconstruction on public in-the-wild datasets of faces, cars, and birds.

567
Next-Best View Policy for 3D Reconstruction
2020-08-28
Manually selecting viewpoints or using commonly available flight planners like circular path for large-scale 3D reconstruction using drones often results in incomplete 3D models. Recent works have relied on hand-engineered heuristics such as information gain to select the Next-Best Views. In this work, we present a learning-based algorithm called Scan-RL to learn a Next-Best View (NBV) Policy. To train and evaluate the agent, we created Houses3K, a dataset of 3D house models. Our experiments show that using Scan-RL, the agent can scan houses with fewer number of steps and a shorter distance compared to our baseline circular path. Experimental results also demonstrate that a single NBV policy can be used to scan multiple houses including those that were not seen during training. The link to Scan-RL is available at https://github.com/darylperalta/ScanRL and Houses3K dataset can be found at https://github.com/darylperalta/Houses3K.

568
Heightmap Reconstruction of Macula on Color Fundus Images Using Conditional Generative Adversarial Networks
2020-09-03
For screening, 3D shape of the eye retina often provides structural information and can assist ophthalmologists to diagnose diseases. However, fundus images which are one the most common screening modalities for retina diagnosis lack this information due to their 2D nature. Hence, in this work, we try to infer about this 3D information or more specifically its heights. Recent approaches have used shading information for reconstructing the heights but their output is not accurate since the utilized information is not sufficient. Additionally, other methods were dependent on the availability of more than one image of the eye which is not available in practice. In this paper, motivated by the success of Conditional Generative Adversarial Networks(cGANs) and deeply supervised networks, we propose a novel architecture for the generator which enhances the details in a sequence of steps. Comparisons on our dataset illustrate that the proposed method outperforms all of the state-of-the-art methods in image translation and medical image translation on this particular task. Additionally, clinical studies also indicate that the proposed method can provide additional information for ophthalmologists for diagnosis.

577
3D Reconstruction and Segmentation of Dissection Photographs for MRI-free Neuropathology
2020-09-11
Neuroimaging to neuropathology correlation (NTNC) promises to enable the transfer of microscopic signatures of pathology to in vivo imaging with MRI, ultimately enhancing clinical care. NTNC traditionally requires a volumetric MRI scan, acquired either ex vivo or a short time prior to death. Unfortunately, ex vivo MRI is difficult and costly, and recent premortem scans of sufficient quality are seldom available. To bridge this gap, we present methodology to 3D reconstruct and segment full brain image volumes from brain dissection photographs, which are routinely acquired at many brain banks and neuropathology departments. The 3D reconstruction is achieved via a joint registration framework, which uses a reference volume other than MRI. This volume may represent either the sample at hand (e.g., a surface 3D scan) or the general population (a probabilistic atlas). In addition, we present a Bayesian method to segment the 3D reconstructed photographic volumes into 36 neuroanatomical structures, which is robust to nonuniform brightness within and across photographs. We evaluate our methods on a dataset with 24 brains, using Dice scores and volume correlations. The results show that dissection photography is a valid replacement for ex vivo MRI in many volumetric analyses, opening an avenue for MRI-free NTNC, including retrospective data. The code is available at https://github.com/htregidgo/DissectionPhotoVolumes.

580
Amodal 3D Reconstruction for Robotic Manipulation via Stability and Connectivity
2020-09-28
Learning-based 3D object reconstruction enables single- or few-shot estimation of 3D object models. For robotics, this holds the potential to allow model-based methods to rapidly adapt to novel objects and scenes. Existing 3D reconstruction techniques optimize for visual reconstruction fidelity, typically measured by chamfer distance or voxel IOU. We find that when applied to realistic, cluttered robotics environments, these systems produce reconstructions with low physical realism, resulting in poor task performance when used for model-based control. We propose ARM, an amodal 3D reconstruction system that introduces (1) a stability prior over object shapes, (2) a connectivity prior, and (3) a multi-channel input representation that allows for reasoning over relationships between groups of objects. By using these priors over the physical properties of objects, our system improves reconstruction quality not just by standard visual metrics, but also performance of model-based control on a variety of robotics manipulation tasks in challenging, cluttered environments. Code is available at github.com/wagnew3/ARM.

588
SDF-SRN: Learning Signed Distance 3D Object Reconstruction from Static Images
2020-10-20
Dense 3D object reconstruction from a single image has recently witnessed remarkable advances, but supervising neural networks with ground-truth 3D shapes is impractical due to the laborious process of creating paired image-shape datasets. Recent efforts have turned to learning 3D reconstruction without 3D supervision from RGB images with annotated 2D silhouettes, dramatically reducing the cost and effort of annotation. These techniques, however, remain impractical as they still require multi-view annotations of the same object instance during training. As a result, most experimental efforts to date have been limited to synthetic datasets. In this paper, we address this issue and propose SDF-SRN, an approach that requires only a single view of objects at training time, offering greater utility for real-world scenarios. SDF-SRN learns implicit 3D shape representations to handle arbitrary shape topologies that may exist in the datasets. To this end, we derive a novel differentiable rendering formulation for learning signed distance functions (SDF) from 2D silhouettes. Our method outperforms the state of the art under challenging single-view supervision settings on both synthetic and real-world datasets.

589
GAMesh: Guided and Augmented Meshing for Deep Point Networks
2020-10-19
We present a new meshing algorithm called guided and augmented meshing, GAMesh, which uses a mesh prior to generate a surface for the output points of a point network. By projecting the output points onto this prior and simplifying the resulting mesh, GAMesh ensures a surface with the same topology as the mesh prior but whose geometric fidelity is controlled by the point network. This makes GAMesh independent of both the density and distribution of the output points, a common artifact in traditional surface reconstruction algorithms. We show that such a separation of geometry from topology can have several advantages especially in single-view shape prediction, fair evaluation of point networks and reconstructing surfaces for networks which output sparse point clouds. We further show that by training point networks with GAMesh, we can directly optimize the vertex positions to generate adaptive meshes with arbitrary topologies.

593
Learning Deformable Tetrahedral Meshes for 3D Reconstruction
2020-11-03
3D shape representations that accommodate learning-based 3D reconstruction are an open problem in machine learning and computer graphics. Previous work on neural 3D reconstruction demonstrated benefits, but also limitations, of point cloud, voxel, surface mesh, and implicit function representations. We introduce Deformable Tetrahedral Meshes (DefTet) as a particular parameterization that utilizes volumetric tetrahedral meshes for the reconstruction problem. Unlike existing volumetric approaches, DefTet optimizes for both vertex placement and occupancy, and is differentiable with respect to standard 3D reconstruction loss functions. It is thus simultaneously high-precision, volumetric, and amenable to learning-based neural architectures. We show that it can represent arbitrary, complex topology, is both memory and computationally efficient, and can produce high-fidelity reconstructions with a significantly smaller grid size than alternative volumetric approaches. The predicted surfaces are also inherently defined as tetrahedral meshes, thus do not require post-processing. We demonstrate that DefTet matches or exceeds both the quality of the previous best approaches and the performance of the fastest ones. Our approach obtains high-quality tetrahedral meshes computed directly from noisy point clouds, and is the first to showcase high-quality 3D tet-mesh results using only a single image as input. Our project webpage: https://nv-tlabs.github.io/DefTet/

597
Dynamic Plane Convolutional Occupancy Networks
2020-11-11
Learning-based 3D reconstruction using implicit neural representations has shown promising progress not only at the object level but also in more complicated scenes. In this paper, we propose Dynamic Plane Convolutional Occupancy Networks, a novel implicit representation pushing further the quality of 3D surface reconstruction. The input noisy point clouds are encoded into per-point features that are projected onto multiple 2D dynamic planes. A fully-connected network learns to predict plane parameters that best describe the shapes of objects or scenes. To further exploit translational equivariance, convolutional neural networks are applied to process the plane features. Our method shows superior performance in surface reconstruction from unoriented point clouds in ShapeNet as well as an indoor scene dataset. Moreover, we also provide interesting observations on the distribution of learned dynamic planes.

599
Dehazing Cost Volume for Deep Multi-view Stereo in Scattering Media with Airlight and Scattering Coefficient Estimation
2020-11-18
We propose a learning-based multi-view stereo (MVS) method in scattering media, such as fog or smoke, with a novel cost volume, called the dehazing cost volume. Images captured in scattering media are degraded due to light scattering and attenuation caused by suspended particles. This degradation depends on scene depth; thus, it is difficult for traditional MVS methods to evaluate photometric consistency because the depth is unknown before three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction. The dehazing cost volume can solve this chicken-and-egg problem of depth estimation and image restoration by computing the scattering effect using swept planes in the cost volume. We also propose a method of estimating scattering parameters, such as airlight, and a scattering coefficient, which are required for our dehazing cost volume. The output depth of a network with our dehazing cost volume can be regarded as a function of these parameters; thus, they are geometrically optimized with a sparse 3D point cloud obtained at a structure-from-motion step. Experimental results on synthesized hazy images indicate the effectiveness of our dehazing cost volume against the ordinary cost volume regarding scattering media. We also demonstrated the applicability of our dehazing cost volume to real foggy scenes.

600
Wide-angle Image Rectification: A Survey
2020-10-30
Wide field-of-view (FOV) cameras, which capture a larger scene area than narrow FOV cameras, are used in many applications including 3D reconstruction, autonomous driving, and video surveillance. However, wide-angle images contain distortions that violate the assumptions underlying pinhole camera models, resulting in object distortion, difficulties in estimating scene distance, area, and direction, and preventing the use of off-the-shelf deep models trained on undistorted images for downstream computer vision tasks. Image rectification, which aims to correct these distortions, can solve these problems. In this paper, we comprehensively survey progress in wide-angle image rectification from transformation models to rectification methods. Specifically, we first present a detailed description and discussion of the camera models used in different approaches. Then, we summarize several distortion models including radial distortion and projection distortion. Next, we review both traditional geometry-based image rectification methods and deep learning-based methods, where the former formulate distortion parameter estimation as an optimization problem and the latter treat it as a regression problem by leveraging the power of deep neural networks. We evaluate the performance of state-of-the-art methods on public datasets and show that although both kinds of methods can achieve good results, these methods only work well for specific camera models and distortion types. We also provide a strong baseline model and carry out an empirical study of different distortion models on synthetic datasets and real-world wide-angle images. Finally, we discuss several potential research directions that are expected to further advance this area in the future.

601
Attention Aware Cost Volume Pyramid Based Multi-view Stereo Network for 3D Reconstruction
2020-11-25
We present an efficient multi-view stereo (MVS) network for 3D reconstruction from multiview images. While previous learning based reconstruction approaches performed quite well, most of them estimate depth maps at a fixed resolution using plane sweep volumes with a fixed depth hypothesis at each plane, which requires densely sampled planes for desired accuracy and therefore is difficult to achieve high resolution depth maps. In this paper we introduce a coarseto-fine depth inference strategy to achieve high resolution depth. This strategy estimates the depth map at coarsest level, while the depth maps at finer levels are considered as the upsampled depth map from previous level with pixel-wise depth residual. Thus, we narrow the depth searching range with priori information from previous level and construct new cost volumes from the pixel-wise depth residual to perform depth map refinement. Then the final depth map could be achieved iteratively since all the parameters are shared between different levels. At each level, the self-attention layer is introduced to the feature extraction block for capturing the long range dependencies for depth inference task, and the cost volume is generated using similarity measurement instead of the variance based methods used in previous work. Experiments were conducted on both the DTU benchmark dataset and recently released BlendedMVS dataset. The results demonstrated that our model could outperform most state-of-the-arts (SOTA) methods. The codebase of this project is at https://github.com/ArthasMil/AACVP-MVSNet.

603
Efficient Scene Compression for Visual-based Localization
2020-11-27
Estimating the pose of a camera with respect to a 3D reconstruction or scene representation is a crucial step for many mixed reality and robotics applications. Given the vast amount of available data nowadays, many applications constrain storage and/or bandwidth to work efficiently. To satisfy these constraints, many applications compress a scene representation by reducing its number of 3D points. While state-of-the-art methods use $K$-cover-based algorithms to compress a scene, they are slow and hard to tune. To enhance speed and facilitate parameter tuning, this work introduces a novel approach that compresses a scene representation by means of a constrained quadratic program (QP). Because this QP resembles a one-class support vector machine, we derive a variant of the sequential minimal optimization to solve it. Our approach uses the points corresponding to the support vectors as the subset of points to represent a scene. We also present an efficient initialization method that allows our method to converge quickly. Our experiments on publicly available datasets show that our approach compresses a scene representation quickly while delivering accurate pose estimates.

606
Where to Explore Next? ExHistCNN for History-aware Autonomous 3D Exploration
2020-11-30
In this work we address the problem of autonomous 3D exploration of an unknown indoor environment using a depth camera. We cast the problem as the estimation of the Next Best View (NBV) that maximises the coverage of the unknown area. We do this by re-formulating NBV estimation as a classification problem and we propose a novel learning-based metric that encodes both, the current 3D observation (a depth frame) and the history of the ongoing reconstruction. One of the major contributions of this work is about introducing a new representation for the 3D reconstruction history as an auxiliary utility map which is efficiently coupled with the current depth observation. With both pieces of information, we train a light-weight CNN, named ExHistCNN, that estimates the NBV as a set of directions towards which the depth sensor finds most unexplored areas. We perform extensive evaluation on both synthetic and real room scans demonstrating that the proposed ExHistCNN is able to approach the exploration performance of an oracle using the complete knowledge of the 3D environment.

618
pixelNeRF: Neural Radiance Fields from One or Few Images
2020-12-03
We propose pixelNeRF, a learning framework that predicts a continuous neural scene representation conditioned on one or few input images. The existing approach for constructing neural radiance fields involves optimizing the representation to every scene independently, requiring many calibrated views and significant compute time. We take a step towards resolving these shortcomings by introducing an architecture that conditions a NeRF on image inputs in a fully convolutional manner. This allows the network to be trained across multiple scenes to learn a scene prior, enabling it to perform novel view synthesis in a feed-forward manner from a sparse set of views (as few as one). Leveraging the volume rendering approach of NeRF, our model can be trained directly from images with no explicit 3D supervision. We conduct extensive experiments on ShapeNet benchmarks for single image novel view synthesis tasks with held-out objects as well as entire unseen categories. We further demonstrate the flexibility of pixelNeRF by demonstrating it on multi-object ShapeNet scenes and real scenes from the DTU dataset. In all cases, pixelNeRF outperforms current state-of-the-art baselines for novel view synthesis and single image 3D reconstruction. For the video and code, please visit the project website: https://alexyu.net/pixelnerf

619
Neural Deformation Graphs for Globally-consistent Non-rigid Reconstruction
2020-12-02
We introduce Neural Deformation Graphs for globally-consistent deformation tracking and 3D reconstruction of non-rigid objects. Specifically, we implicitly model a deformation graph via a deep neural network. This neural deformation graph does not rely on any object-specific structure and, thus, can be applied to general non-rigid deformation tracking. Our method globally optimizes this neural graph on a given sequence of depth camera observations of a non-rigidly moving object. Based on explicit viewpoint consistency as well as inter-frame graph and surface consistency constraints, the underlying network is trained in a self-supervised fashion. We additionally optimize for the geometry of the object with an implicit deformable multi-MLP shape representation. Our approach does not assume sequential input data, thus enabling robust tracking of fast motions or even temporally disconnected recordings. Our experiments demonstrate that our Neural Deformation Graphs outperform state-of-the-art non-rigid reconstruction approaches both qualitatively and quantitatively, with 64% improved reconstruction and 62% improved deformation tracking performance.

625
E3D: Event-Based 3D Shape Reconstruction
2020-12-09
3D shape reconstruction is a primary component of augmented/virtual reality. Despite being highly advanced, existing solutions based on RGB, RGB-D and Lidar sensors are power and data intensive, which introduces challenges for deployment in edge devices. We approach 3D reconstruction with an event camera, a sensor with significantly lower power, latency and data expense while enabling high dynamic range. While previous event-based 3D reconstruction methods are primarily based on stereo vision, we cast the problem as multi-view shape from silhouette using a monocular event camera. The output from a moving event camera is a sparse point set of space-time gradients, largely sketching scene/object edges and contours. We first introduce an event-to-silhouette (E2S) neural network module to transform a stack of event frames to the corresponding silhouettes, with additional neural branches for camera pose regression. Second, we introduce E3D, which employs a 3D differentiable renderer (PyTorch3D) to enforce cross-view 3D mesh consistency and fine-tune the E2S and pose network. Lastly, we introduce a 3D-to-events simulation pipeline and apply it to publicly available object datasets and generate synthetic event/silhouette training pairs for supervised learning.

630
GeoNet++: Iterative Geometric Neural Network with Edge-Aware Refinement for Joint Depth and Surface Normal Estimation
2020-12-13
In this paper, we propose a geometric neural network with edge-aware refinement (GeoNet++) to jointly predict both depth and surface normal maps from a single image. Building on top of two-stream CNNs, GeoNet++ captures the geometric relationships between depth and surface normals with the proposed depth-to-normal and normal-to-depth modules. In particular, the "depth-to-normal" module exploits the least square solution of estimating surface normals from depth to improve their quality, while the "normal-to-depth" module refines the depth map based on the constraints on surface normals through kernel regression. Boundary information is exploited via an edge-aware refinement module. GeoNet++ effectively predicts depth and surface normals with strong 3D consistency and sharp boundaries resulting in better reconstructed 3D scenes. Note that GeoNet++ is generic and can be used in other depth/normal prediction frameworks to improve the quality of 3D reconstruction and pixel-wise accuracy of depth and surface normals. Furthermore, we propose a new 3D geometric metric (3DGM) for evaluating depth prediction in 3D. In contrast to current metrics that focus on evaluating pixel-wise error/accuracy, 3DGM measures whether the predicted depth can reconstruct high-quality 3D surface normals. This is a more natural metric for many 3D application domains. Our experiments on NYUD-V2 and KITTI datasets verify that GeoNet++ produces fine boundary details, and the predicted depth can be used to reconstruct high-quality 3D surfaces. Code has been made publicly available.

631
Learning Continuous Image Representation with Local Implicit Image Function
2020-12-16
How to represent an image? While the visual world is presented in a continuous manner, machines store and see the images in a discrete way with 2D arrays of pixels. In this paper, we seek to learn a continuous representation for images. Inspired by the recent progress in 3D reconstruction with implicit neural representation, we propose Local Implicit Image Function (LIIF), which takes an image coordinate and the 2D deep features around the coordinate as inputs, predicts the RGB value at a given coordinate as an output. Since the coordinates are continuous, LIIF can be presented in arbitrary resolution. To generate the continuous representation for images, we train an encoder with LIIF representation via a self-supervised task with super-resolution. The learned continuous representation can be presented in arbitrary resolution even extrapolate to x30 higher resolution, where the training tasks are not provided. We further show that LIIF representation builds a bridge between discrete and continuous representation in 2D, it naturally supports the learning tasks with size-varied image ground-truths and significantly outperforms the method with resizing the ground-truths.

638
Self-supervised monocular depth estimation from oblique UAV videos
2020-12-19
UAVs have become an essential photogrammetric measurement as they are affordable, easily accessible and versatile. Aerial images captured from UAVs have applications in small and large scale texture mapping, 3D modelling, object detection tasks, DTM and DSM generation etc. Photogrammetric techniques are routinely used for 3D reconstruction from UAV images where multiple images of the same scene are acquired. Developments in computer vision and deep learning techniques have made Single Image Depth Estimation (SIDE) a field of intense research. Using SIDE techniques on UAV images can overcome the need for multiple images for 3D reconstruction. This paper aims to estimate depth from a single UAV aerial image using deep learning. We follow a self-supervised learning approach, Self-Supervised Monocular Depth Estimation (SMDE), which does not need ground truth depth or any extra information other than images for learning to estimate depth. Monocular video frames are used for training the deep learning model which learns depth and pose information jointly through two different networks, one each for depth and pose. The predicted depth and pose are used to reconstruct one image from the viewpoint of another image utilising the temporal information from videos. We propose a novel architecture with two 2D CNN encoders and a 3D CNN decoder for extracting information from consecutive temporal frames. A contrastive loss term is introduced for improving the quality of image generation. Our experiments are carried out on the public UAVid video dataset. The experimental results demonstrate that our model outperforms the state-of-the-art methods in estimating the depths.

644
Learning Accurate Dense Correspondences and When to Trust Them
2021-01-05
Establishing dense correspondences between a pair of images is an important and general problem. However, dense flow estimation is often inaccurate in the case of large displacements or homogeneous regions. For most applications and down-stream tasks, such as pose estimation, image manipulation, or 3D reconstruction, it is crucial to know when and where to trust the estimated matches. In this work, we aim to estimate a dense flow field relating two images, coupled with a robust pixel-wise confidence map indicating the reliability and accuracy of the prediction. We develop a flexible probabilistic approach that jointly learns the flow prediction and its uncertainty. In particular, we parametrize the predictive distribution as a constrained mixture model, ensuring better modelling of both accurate flow predictions and outliers. Moreover, we develop an architecture and training strategy tailored for robust and generalizable uncertainty prediction in the context of self-supervised training. Our approach obtains state-of-the-art results on multiple challenging geometric matching and optical flow datasets. We further validate the usefulness of our probabilistic confidence estimation for the task of pose estimation. Code and models are available at https://github.com/PruneTruong/PDCNet.

650
Hybrid Rotation Averaging: A Fast and Robust Rotation Averaging Approach
2021-01-22
We address rotation averaging (RA) and its application to real-world 3D reconstruction. Local optimisation based approaches are the de facto choice, though they only guarantee a local optimum. Global optimisers ensure global optimality in low noise conditions, but they are inefficient and may easily deviate under the influence of outliers or elevated noise levels. We push the envelope of rotation averaging by leveraging the advantages of a global RA method and a local RA method. Combined with a fast view graph filtering as preprocessing, the proposed hybrid approach is robust to outliers. We further apply the proposed hybrid rotation averaging approach to incremental Structure from Motion (SfM), the accuracy and robustness of SfM are both improved by adding the resulting global rotations as regularisers to bundle adjustment. Overall, we demonstrate high practicality of the proposed method as bad camera poses are effectively corrected and drift is reduced.

652
A metric for evaluating 3D reconstruction and mapping performance with no ground truthing
2021-01-25
It is not easy when evaluating 3D mapping performance because existing metrics require ground truth data that can only be collected with special instruments. In this paper, we propose a metric, dense map posterior (DMP), for this evaluation. It can work without any ground truth data. Instead, it calculates a comparable value, reflecting a map posterior probability, from dense point cloud observations. In our experiments, the proposed DMP is benchmarked against ground truth-based metrics. Results show that DMP can provide a similar evaluation capability. The proposed metric makes evaluating different methods more flexible and opens many new possibilities, such as self-supervised methods and more available datasets.

655
Rethinking Content and Style: Exploring Bias for Unsupervised Disentanglement
2021-02-21
Content and style (C-S) disentanglement intends to decompose the underlying explanatory factors of objects into two independent subspaces. From the unsupervised disentanglement perspective, we rethink content and style and propose a formulation for unsupervised C-S disentanglement based on our assumption that different factors are of different importance and popularity for image reconstruction, which serves as a data bias. The corresponding model inductive bias is introduced by our proposed C-S disentanglement Module (C-S DisMo), which assigns different and independent roles to content and style when approximating the real data distributions. Specifically, each content embedding from the dataset, which encodes the most dominant factors for image reconstruction, is assumed to be sampled from a shared distribution across the dataset. The style embedding for a particular image, encoding the remaining factors, is used to customize the shared distribution through an affine transformation. The experiments on several popular datasets demonstrate that our method achieves the state-of-the-art unsupervised C-S disentanglement, which is comparable or even better than supervised methods. We verify the effectiveness of our method by downstream tasks: domain translation and single-view 3D reconstruction. Project page at https://github.com/xrenaa/CS-DisMo.

659
An Effective Loss Function for Generating 3D Models from Single 2D Image without Rendering
2021-03-05
Differentiable rendering is a very successful technique that applies to a Single-View 3D Reconstruction. Current renderers use losses based on pixels between a rendered image of some 3D reconstructed object and ground-truth images from given matched viewpoints to optimise parameters of the 3D shape. These models require a rendering step, along with visibility handling and evaluation of the shading model. The main goal of this paper is to demonstrate that we can avoid these steps and still get reconstruction results as other state-of-the-art models that are equal or even better than existing category-specific reconstruction methods. First, we use the same CNN architecture for the prediction of a point cloud shape and pose prediction like the one used by Insafutdinov & Dosovitskiy. Secondly, we propose the novel effective loss function that evaluates how well the projections of reconstructed 3D point clouds cover the ground truth object's silhouette. Then we use Poisson Surface Reconstruction to transform the reconstructed point cloud into a 3D mesh. Finally, we perform a GAN-based texture mapping on a particular 3D mesh and produce a textured 3D mesh from a single 2D image. We evaluate our method on different datasets (including ShapeNet, CUB-200-2011, and Pascal3D+) and achieve state-of-the-art results, outperforming all the other supervised and unsupervised methods and 3D representations, all in terms of performance, accuracy, and training time.

664
Deep Implicit Moving Least-Squares Functions for 3D Reconstruction
2021-03-23
Point set is a flexible and lightweight representation widely used for 3D deep learning. However, their discrete nature prevents them from representing continuous and fine geometry, posing a major issue for learning-based shape generation. In this work, we turn the discrete point sets into smooth surfaces by introducing the well-known implicit moving least-squares (IMLS) surface formulation, which naturally defines locally implicit functions on point sets. We incorporate IMLS surface generation into deep neural networks for inheriting both the flexibility of point sets and the high quality of implicit surfaces. Our IMLSNet predicts an octree structure as a scaffold for generating MLS points where needed and characterizes shape geometry with learned local priors. Furthermore, our implicit function evaluation is independent of the neural network once the MLS points are predicted, thus enabling fast runtime evaluation. Our experiments on 3D object reconstruction demonstrate that IMLSNets outperform state-of-the-art learning-based methods in terms of reconstruction quality and computational efficiency. Extensive ablation tests also validate our network design and loss functions.

668
MINE: Towards Continuous Depth MPI with NeRF for Novel View Synthesis
2021-03-27
In this paper, we propose MINE to perform novel view synthesis and depth estimation via dense 3D reconstruction from a single image. Our approach is a continuous depth generalization of the Multiplane Images (MPI) by introducing the NEural radiance fields (NeRF). Given a single image as input, MINE predicts a 4-channel image (RGB and volume density) at arbitrary depth values to jointly reconstruct the camera frustum and fill in occluded contents. The reconstructed and inpainted frustum can then be easily rendered into novel RGB or depth views using differentiable rendering. Extensive experiments on RealEstate10K, KITTI and Flowers Light Fields show that our MINE outperforms state-of-the-art by a large margin in novel view synthesis. We also achieve competitive results in depth estimation on iBims-1 and NYU-v2 without annotated depth supervision. Our source code is available at https://github.com/vincentfung13/MINE

675
Deep Two-View Structure-from-Motion Revisited
2021-04-01
Two-view structure-from-motion (SfM) is the cornerstone of 3D reconstruction and visual SLAM. Existing deep learning-based approaches formulate the problem by either recovering absolute pose scales from two consecutive frames or predicting a depth map from a single image, both of which are ill-posed problems. In contrast, we propose to revisit the problem of deep two-view SfM by leveraging the well-posedness of the classic pipeline. Our method consists of 1) an optical flow estimation network that predicts dense correspondences between two frames; 2) a normalized pose estimation module that computes relative camera poses from the 2D optical flow correspondences, and 3) a scale-invariant depth estimation network that leverages epipolar geometry to reduce the search space, refine the dense correspondences, and estimate relative depth maps. Extensive experiments show that our method outperforms all state-of-the-art two-view SfM methods by a clear margin on KITTI depth, KITTI VO, MVS, Scenes11, and SUN3D datasets in both relative pose and depth estimation.

677
RetrievalFuse: Neural 3D Scene Reconstruction with a Database
2021-03-31
3D reconstruction of large scenes is a challenging problem due to the high-complexity nature of the solution space, in particular for generative neural networks. In contrast to traditional generative learned models which encode the full generative process into a neural network and can struggle with maintaining local details at the scene level, we introduce a new method that directly leverages scene geometry from the training database. First, we learn to synthesize an initial estimate for a 3D scene, constructed by retrieving a top-k set of volumetric chunks from the scene database. These candidates are then refined to a final scene generation with an attention-based refinement that can effectively select the most consistent set of geometry from the candidates and combine them together to create an output scene, facilitating transfer of coherent structures and local detail from train scene geometry. We demonstrate our neural scene reconstruction with a database for the tasks of 3D super resolution and surface reconstruction from sparse point clouds, showing that our approach enables generation of more coherent, accurate 3D scenes, improving on average by over 8% in IoU over state-of-the-art scene reconstruction.

679
Fully Understanding Generic Objects: Modeling, Segmentation, and Reconstruction
2021-04-02
Inferring 3D structure of a generic object from a 2D image is a long-standing objective of computer vision. Conventional approaches either learn completely from CAD-generated synthetic data, which have difficulty in inference from real images, or generate 2.5D depth image via intrinsic decomposition, which is limited compared to the full 3D reconstruction. One fundamental challenge lies in how to leverage numerous real 2D images without any 3D ground truth. To address this issue, we take an alternative approach with semi-supervised learning. That is, for a 2D image of a generic object, we decompose it into latent representations of category, shape and albedo, lighting and camera projection matrix, decode the representations to segmented 3D shape and albedo respectively, and fuse these components to render an image well approximating the input image. Using a category-adaptive 3D joint occupancy field (JOF), we show that the complete shape and albedo modeling enables us to leverage real 2D images in both modeling and model fitting. The effectiveness of our approach is demonstrated through superior 3D reconstruction from a single image, being either synthetic or real, and shape segmentation.

680
Synergies Between Affordance and Geometry: 6-DoF Grasp Detection via Implicit Representations
2021-04-04
Grasp detection in clutter requires the robot to reason about the 3D scene from incomplete and noisy perception. In this work, we draw insight that 3D reconstruction and grasp learning are two intimately connected tasks, both of which require a fine-grained understanding of local geometry details. We thus propose to utilize the synergies between grasp affordance and 3D reconstruction through multi-task learning of a shared representation. Our model takes advantage of deep implicit functions, a continuous and memory-efficient representation, to enable differentiable training of both tasks. We train the model on self-supervised grasp trials data in simulation. Evaluation is conducted on a clutter removal task, where the robot clears cluttered objects by grasping them one at a time. The experimental results in simulation and on the real robot have demonstrated that the use of implicit neural representations and joint learning of grasp affordance and 3D reconstruction have led to state-of-the-art grasping results. Our method outperforms baselines by over 10% in terms of grasp success rate. Additional results and videos can be found at https://sites.google.com/view/rpl-giga2021

685
Soft Expectation and Deep Maximization for Image Feature Detection
2021-04-21
Central to the application of many multi-view geometry algorithms is the extraction of matching points between multiple viewpoints, enabling classical tasks such as camera pose estimation and 3D reconstruction. Many approaches that characterize these points have been proposed based on hand-tuned appearance models or data-driven learning methods. We propose Soft Expectation and Deep Maximization (SEDM), an iterative unsupervised learning process that directly optimizes the repeatability of the features by posing the problem in a similar way to expectation maximization (EM). We found convergence to be reliable and the new model to be more lighting invariant and better at localize the underlying 3D points in a scene, improving SfM quality when compared to other state of the art deep learning detectors.

694
Multi-view 3D Reconstruction of a Texture-less Smooth Surface of Unknown Generic Reflectance
2021-05-25
Recovering the 3D geometry of a purely texture-less object with generally unknown surface reflectance (e.g. non-Lambertian) is regarded as a challenging task in multi-view reconstruction. The major obstacle revolves around establishing cross-view correspondences where photometric constancy is violated. This paper proposes a simple and practical solution to overcome this challenge based on a co-located camera-light scanner device. Unlike existing solutions, we do not explicitly solve for correspondence. Instead, we argue the problem is generally well-posed by multi-view geometrical and photometric constraints, and can be solved from a small number of input views. We formulate the reconstruction task as a joint energy minimization over the surface geometry and reflectance. Despite this energy is highly non-convex, we develop an optimization algorithm that robustly recovers globally optimal shape and reflectance even from a random initialization. Extensive experiments on both simulated and real data have validated our method, and possible future extensions are discussed.

695
Geodesy of irregular small bodies via neural density fields: geodesyNets
2021-05-27
We present a novel approach based on artificial neural networks, so-called geodesyNets, and present compelling evidence of their ability to serve as accurate geodetic models of highly irregular bodies using minimal prior information on the body. The approach does not rely on the body shape information but, if available, can harness it. GeodesyNets learn a three-dimensional, differentiable, function representing the body density, which we call neural density field. The body shape, as well as other geodetic properties, can easily be recovered. We investigate six different shapes including the bodies 101955 Bennu, 67P Churyumov-Gerasimenko, 433 Eros and 25143 Itokawa for which shape models developed during close proximity surveys are available. Both heterogeneous and homogeneous mass distributions are considered. The gravitational acceleration computed from the trained geodesyNets models, as well as the inferred body shape, show great accuracy in all cases with a relative error on the predicted acceleration smaller than 1\% even close to the asteroid surface. When the body shape information is available, geodesyNets can seamlessly exploit it and be trained to represent a high-fidelity neural density field able to give insights into the internal structure of the body. This work introduces a new unexplored approach to geodesy, adding a powerful tool to consolidated ones based on spherical harmonics, mascon models and polyhedral gravity.

696
Three-dimensional multimodal medical imaging system based on free-hand ultrasound and structured light
2021-05-29
We propose a three-dimensional (3D) multimodal medical imaging system that combines freehand ultrasound and structured light 3D reconstruction in a single coordinate system without requiring registration. To the best of our knowledge, these techniques have not been combined before as a multimodal imaging technique. The system complements the internal 3D information acquired with ultrasound, with the external surface measured with the structure light technique. Moreover, the ultrasound probe's optical tracking for pose estimation was implemented based on a convolutional neural network. Experimental results show the system's high accuracy and reproducibility, as well as its potential for preoperative and intraoperative applications. The experimental multimodal error, or the distance from two surfaces obtained with different modalities, was 0.12 mm. The code is available as a Github repository.

699
Neural Implicit 3D Shapes from Single Images with Spatial Patterns
2021-06-06
Neural implicit functions have achieved impressive results for reconstructing 3D shapes from single images. However, the image features for describing 3D point samplings of implicit functions are less effective when significant variations of occlusions, views, and appearances exist from the image. To better encode image features, we study a geometry-aware convolutional kernel to leverage geometric relationships of point samplings by the proposed \emph{spatial pattern}, i.e., a structured point set. Specifically, the kernel operates at 2D projections of 3D points from the spatial pattern. Supported by the spatial pattern, the 2D kernel encodes geometric information that is crucial for 3D reconstruction tasks, while traditional ones mainly consider appearance information. Furthermore, to enable the network to discover more adaptive spatial patterns for further capturing non-local contextual information, the kernel is devised to be deformable manipulated by a spatial pattern generator. Experimental results on both synthetic and real datasets demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method. Pre-trained models, codes, and data are available at https://github.com/yixin26/SVR-SP.

702
Mirror3D: Depth Refinement for Mirror Surfaces
2021-06-11
Despite recent progress in depth sensing and 3D reconstruction, mirror surfaces are a significant source of errors. To address this problem, we create the Mirror3D dataset: a 3D mirror plane dataset based on three RGBD datasets (Matterport3D, NYUv2 and ScanNet) containing 7,011 mirror instance masks and 3D planes. We then develop Mirror3DNet: a module that refines raw sensor depth or estimated depth to correct errors on mirror surfaces. Our key idea is to estimate the 3D mirror plane based on RGB input and surrounding depth context, and use this estimate to directly regress mirror surface depth. Our experiments show that Mirror3DNet significantly mitigates errors from a variety of input depth data, including raw sensor depth and depth estimation or completion methods.

703
ResDepth: A Deep Residual Prior For 3D Reconstruction From High-resolution Satellite Images
2021-06-15
Modern optical satellite sensors enable high-resolution stereo reconstruction from space. But the challenging imaging conditions when observing the Earth from space push stereo matching to its limits. In practice, the resulting digital surface models (DSMs) are fairly noisy and often do not attain the accuracy needed for high-resolution applications such as 3D city modeling. Arguably, stereo correspondence based on low-level image similarity is insufficient and should be complemented with a-priori knowledge about the expected surface geometry beyond basic local smoothness. To that end, we introduce ResDepth, a convolutional neural network that learns such an expressive geometric prior from example data. ResDepth refines an initial, raw stereo DSM while conditioning the refinement on the images. I.e., it acts as a smart, learned post-processing filter and can seamlessly complement any stereo matching pipeline. In a series of experiments, we find that the proposed method consistently improves stereo DSMs both quantitatively and qualitatively. We show that the prior encoded in the network weights captures meaningful geometric characteristics of urban design, which also generalize across different districts and even from one city to another. Moreover, we demonstrate that, by training on a variety of stereo pairs, ResDepth can acquire a sufficient degree of invariance against variations in imaging conditions and acquisition geometry.

704
Traffic4D: Single View Reconstruction of Repetitious Activity Using Longitudinal Self-Supervision
2021-07-16
Reconstructing 4D vehicular activity (3D space
and time) from cameras is useful for autonomous vehicles,
commuters and local authorities to plan for smarter and safer
cities. Traffic is inherently repetitious over long periods, yet
current deep learning-based 3D reconstruction methods have
not considered such repetitions and have difficulty generalizing
to new intersection-installed cameras. We present a novel
approach exploiting longitudinal (long-term) repetitious motion
as self-supervision to reconstruct 3D vehicular activity from a
video captured by a single fixed camera. Starting from offthe-shelf 2D keypoint detections, our algorithm optimizes 3D
vehicle shapes and poses, and then clusters their trajectories in
3D space. The 2D keypoints and trajectory clusters accumulated
over long-term are later used to improve the 2D and 3D
keypoints via self-supervision without any human annotation.
Our method improves reconstruction accuracy over state of
the art on scenes with a significant visual difference from the
keypoint detector’s training data, and has many applications
including velocity estimation, anomaly detection and vehicle
counting. We demonstrate results on traffic videos captured
at multiple city intersections, collected using our smartphones,
YouTube, and other public datasets.

708
Part-Aware Measurement for Robust Multi-View Multi-Human 3D Pose Estimation and Tracking
2021-06-22
This paper introduces an approach for multi-human 3D pose estimation and tracking based on calibrated multi-view. The main challenge lies in finding the cross-view and temporal correspondences correctly even when several human pose estimations are noisy. Compare to previous solutions that construct 3D poses from multiple views, our approach takes advantage of temporal consistency to match the 2D poses estimated with previously constructed 3D skeletons in every view. Therefore cross-view and temporal associations are accomplished simultaneously. Since the performance suffers from mistaken association and noisy predictions, we design two strategies for aiming better correspondences and 3D reconstruction. Specifically, we propose a part-aware measurement for 2D-3D association and a filter that can cope with 2D outliers during reconstruction. Our approach is efficient and effective comparing to state-of-the-art methods; it achieves competitive results on two benchmarks: 96.8% on Campus and 97.4% on Shelf. Moreover, we extends the length of Campus evaluation frames to be more challenging and our proposal also reach well-performed result.

710
LegoFormer: Transformers for Block-by-Block Multi-view 3D Reconstruction
2021-06-23
Most modern deep learning-based multi-view 3D reconstruction techniques use RNNs or fusion modules to combine information from multiple images after independently encoding them. These two separate steps have loose connections and do not allow easy information sharing among views. We propose LegoFormer, a transformer model for voxel-based 3D reconstruction that uses the attention layers to share information among views during all computational stages. Moreover, instead of predicting each voxel independently, we propose to parametrize the output with a series of low-rank decomposition factors. This reformulation allows the prediction of an object as a set of independent regular structures then aggregated to obtain the final reconstruction. Experiments conducted on ShapeNet demonstrate the competitive performance of our model with respect to the state of the art while having increased interpretability thanks to the self-attention layers. We also show promising generalization results to real data.

713
Indoor Panorama Planar 3D Reconstruction via Divide and Conquer
2021-06-27
Indoor panorama typically consists of human-made structures parallel or perpendicular to gravity. We leverage this phenomenon to approximate the scene in a 360-degree image with (H)orizontal-planes and (V)ertical-planes. To this end, we propose an effective divide-and-conquer strategy that divides pixels based on their plane orientation estimation; then, the succeeding instance segmentation module conquers the task of planes clustering more easily in each plane orientation group. Besides, parameters of V-planes depend on camera yaw rotation, but translation-invariant CNNs are less aware of the yaw change. We thus propose a yaw-invariant V-planar reparameterization for CNNs to learn. We create a benchmark for indoor panorama planar reconstruction by extending existing 360 depth datasets with ground truth H\&V-planes (referred to as PanoH&V dataset) and adopt state-of-the-art planar reconstruction methods to predict H\&V-planes as our baselines. Our method outperforms the baselines by a large margin on the proposed dataset.

718
Learning 3D Shape Feature for Texture-Insensitive Person Re-Identification
2021-06-19
    It is well acknowledged that person re-identification (person ReID) highly relies on visual texture information like clothing. Despite significant progress has been made in recent years, texture-confusing situations like clothing changing and persons wearing the same clothes receive little attention from most existing ReID methods. In this paper, rather than relying on texture based information, we propose to improve the robustness of person ReID against clothing texture by exploiting the information of a person's 3D shape. Existing shape learning schemas for person ReID either ignore the 3D information of a person, or require extra physical devices to collect 3D source data. Differently, we propose a novel ReID learning framework that directly extracts a texture-insensitive 3D shape embedding from a 2D image by adding 3D body reconstruction as an auxiliary task and regularization, called 3D Shape Learning (3DSL). The 3D reconstruction based regularization forces the ReID model to decouple the 3D shape information from the visual texture, and acquire discriminative 3D shape ReID features. To solve the problem of lacking 3D ground truth, we design an adversarial self-supervised projection (ASSP) model, performing 3D reconstruction without ground truth. Extensive experiments on common ReID datasets and texture-confusing datasets validate the effectiveness of our model.    

723
Ray-ONet: Efficient 3D Reconstruction From A Single RGB Image
2021-07-05
We propose Ray-ONet to reconstruct detailed 3D models from monocular images efficiently. By predicting a series of occupancy probabilities along a ray that is back-projected from a pixel in the camera coordinate, our method Ray-ONet improves the reconstruction accuracy in comparison with Occupancy Networks (ONet), while reducing the network inference complexity to O($N^2$). As a result, Ray-ONet achieves state-of-the-art performance on the ShapeNet benchmark with more than 20$\times$ speed-up at $128^3$ resolution and maintains a similar memory footprint during inference.

724
TransformerFusion: Monocular RGB Scene Reconstruction using Transformers
2021-07-05
We introduce TransformerFusion, a transformer-based 3D scene reconstruction approach. From an input monocular RGB video, the video frames are processed by a transformer network that fuses the observations into a volumetric feature grid representing the scene; this feature grid is then decoded into an implicit 3D scene representation. Key to our approach is the transformer architecture that enables the network to learn to attend to the most relevant image frames for each 3D location in the scene, supervised only by the scene reconstruction task. Features are fused in a coarse-to-fine fashion, storing fine-level features only where needed, requiring lower memory storage and enabling fusion at interactive rates. The feature grid is then decoded to a higher-resolution scene reconstruction, using an MLP-based surface occupancy prediction from interpolated coarse-to-fine 3D features. Our approach results in an accurate surface reconstruction, outperforming state-of-the-art multi-view stereo depth estimation methods, fully-convolutional 3D reconstruction approaches, and approaches using LSTM- or GRU-based recurrent networks for video sequence fusion.

727
Capturing, Reconstructing, and Simulating: the UrbanScene3D Dataset
2021-07-09
We present UrbanScene3D, a large-scale data platform for research of urban scene perception and reconstruction. UrbanScene3D contains over 128k high-resolution images covering 16 scenes including large-scale real urban regions and synthetic cities with 136 km^2 area in total. The dataset also contains high-precision LiDAR scans and hundreds of image sets with different observation patterns, which provide a comprehensive benchmark to design and evaluate aerial path planning and 3D reconstruction algorithms. In addition, the dataset, which is built on Unreal Engine and Airsim simulator together with the manually annotated unique instance label for each building in the dataset, enables the generation of all kinds of data, e.g., 2D depth maps, 2D/3D bounding boxes, and 3D point cloud/mesh segmentations, etc. The simulator with physical engine and lighting system not only produce variety of data but also enable users to simulate cars or drones in the proposed urban environment for future research.

731
Active 3D Shape Reconstruction from Vision and Touch
2021-07-20
Humans build 3D understandings of the world through active object exploration, using jointly their senses of vision and touch. However, in 3D shape reconstruction, most recent progress has relied on static datasets of limited sensory data such as RGB images, depth maps or haptic readings, leaving the active exploration of the shape largely unexplored. Inactive touch sensing for 3D reconstruction, the goal is to actively select the tactile readings that maximize the improvement in shape reconstruction accuracy. However, the development of deep learning-based active touch models is largely limited by the lack of frameworks for shape exploration. In this paper, we focus on this problem and introduce a system composed of: 1) a haptic simulator leveraging high spatial resolution vision-based tactile sensors for active touching of 3D objects; 2)a mesh-based 3D shape reconstruction model that relies on tactile or visuotactile signals; and 3) a set of data-driven solutions with either tactile or visuotactile priors to guide the shape exploration. Our framework enables the development of the first fully data-driven solutions to active touch on top of learned models for object understanding. Our experiments show the benefits of such solutions in the task of 3D shape understanding where our models consistently outperform natural baselines. We provide our framework as a tool to foster future research in this direction.

732
Fabrication-Aware Reverse Engineering for Carpentry
2021-07-21
We propose a novel method to generate fabrication blueprints from images of carpentered items. While 3D reconstruction from images is a well-studied problem, typical approaches produce representations that are ill-suited for computer-aided design and fabrication applications. Our key insight is that fabrication processes define and constrain the design space for carpentered objects, and can be leveraged to develop novel reconstruction methods. Our method makes use of domain-specific constraints to recover not just valid geometry, but a semantically valid assembly of parts, using a combination of image-based and geometric optimization techniques. We demonstrate our method on a variety of wooden objects and furniture, and show that we can automatically obtain designs that are both easy to edit and accurate recreations of the ground truth. We further illustrate how our method can be used to fabricate a physical replica of the captured object as well as a customized version, which can be produced by directly editing the reconstructed model in CAD software.

735
H3D-Net: Few-Shot High-Fidelity 3D Head Reconstruction
2021-07-26
Recent learning approaches that implicitly represent surface geometry using coordinate-based neural representations have shown impressive results in the problem of multi-view 3D reconstruction. The effectiveness of these techniques is, however, subject to the availability of a large number (several tens) of input views of the scene, and computationally demanding optimizations. In this paper, we tackle these limitations for the specific problem of few-shot full 3D head reconstruction, by endowing coordinate-based representations with a probabilistic shape prior that enables faster convergence and better generalization when using few input images (down to three). First, we learn a shape model of 3D heads from thousands of incomplete raw scans using implicit representations. At test time, we jointly overfit two coordinate-based neural networks to the scene, one modeling the geometry and another estimating the surface radiance, using implicit differentiable rendering. We devise a two-stage optimization strategy in which the learned prior is used to initialize and constrain the geometry during an initial optimization phase. Then, the prior is unfrozen and fine-tuned to the scene. By doing this, we achieve high-fidelity head reconstructions, including hair and shoulders, and with a high level of detail that consistently outperforms both state-of-the-art 3D Morphable Models methods in the few-shot scenario, and non-parametric methods when large sets of views are available.

744
Towards unconstrained joint hand-object reconstruction from RGB videos
2021-08-16
Our work aims to obtain 3D reconstruction of hands and manipulated objects from monocular videos. Reconstructing hand-object manipulations holds a great potential for robotics and learning from human demonstrations. The supervised learning approach to this problem, however, requires 3D supervision and remains limited to constrained laboratory settings and simulators for which 3D ground truth is available. In this paper we first propose a learning-free fitting approach for hand-object reconstruction which can seamlessly handle two-hand object interactions. Our method relies on cues obtained with common methods for object detection, hand pose estimation and instance segmentation. We quantitatively evaluate our approach and show that it can be applied to datasets with varying levels of difficulty for which training data is unavailable.

746
Pixel-Perfect Structure-from-Motion with Featuremetric Refinement
2021-08-18
Finding local features that are repeatable across multiple views is a cornerstone of sparse 3D reconstruction. The classical image matching paradigm detects keypoints per-image once and for all, which can yield poorly-localized features and propagate large errors to the final geometry. In this paper, we refine two key steps of structure-from-motion by a direct alignment of low-level image information from multiple views: we first adjust the initial keypoint locations prior to any geometric estimation, and subsequently refine points and camera poses as a post-processing. This refinement is robust to large detection noise and appearance changes, as it optimizes a featuremetric error based on dense features predicted by a neural network. This significantly improves the accuracy of camera poses and scene geometry for a wide range of keypoint detectors, challenging viewing conditions, and off-the-shelf deep features. Our system easily scales to large image collections, enabling pixel-perfect crowd-sourced localization at scale. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/cvg/pixel-perfect-sfm as an add-on to the popular SfM software COLMAP.

748
Learning Anchored Unsigned Distance Functions with Gradient Direction Alignment for Single-view Garment Reconstruction
2021-08-19
While single-view 3D reconstruction has made significant progress benefiting from deep shape representations in recent years, garment reconstruction is still not solved well due to open surfaces, diverse topologies and complex geometric details. In this paper, we propose a novel learnable Anchored Unsigned Distance Function (AnchorUDF) representation for 3D garment reconstruction from a single image. AnchorUDF represents 3D shapes by predicting unsigned distance fields (UDFs) to enable open garment surface modeling at arbitrary resolution. To capture diverse garment topologies, AnchorUDF not only computes pixel-aligned local image features of query points, but also leverages a set of anchor points located around the surface to enrich 3D position features for query points, which provides stronger 3D space context for the distance function. Furthermore, in order to obtain more accurate point projection direction at inference, we explicitly align the spatial gradient direction of AnchorUDF with the ground-truth direction to the surface during training. Extensive experiments on two public 3D garment datasets, i.e., MGN and Deep Fashion3D, demonstrate that AnchorUDF achieves the state-of-the-art performance on single-view garment reconstruction.

751
SSR: Semi-supervised Soft Rasterizer for single-view 2D to 3D Reconstruction
2021-08-21
Recent work has made significant progress in learning object meshes with weak supervision. Soft Rasterization methods have achieved accurate 3D reconstruction from 2D images with viewpoint supervision only. In this work, we further reduce the labeling effort by allowing such 3D reconstruction methods leverage unlabeled images. In order to obtain the viewpoints for these unlabeled images, we propose to use a Siamese network that takes two images as input and outputs whether they correspond to the same viewpoint. During training, we minimize the cross entropy loss to maximize the probability of predicting whether a pair of images belong to the same viewpoint or not. To get the viewpoint of a new image, we compare it against different viewpoints obtained from the training samples and select the viewpoint with the highest matching probability. We finally label the unlabeled images with the most confident predicted viewpoint and train a deep network that has a differentiable rasterization layer. Our experiments show that even labeling only two objects yields significant improvement in IoU for ShapeNet when leveraging unlabeled examples. Code is available at https://github.com/IssamLaradji/SSR.

757
Common Objects in 3D: Large-Scale Learning and Evaluation of Real-life 3D Category Reconstruction
2021-09-01
Traditional approaches for learning 3D object categories have been predominantly trained and evaluated on synthetic datasets due to the unavailability of real 3D-annotated category-centric data. Our main goal is to facilitate advances in this field by collecting real-world data in a magnitude similar to the existing synthetic counterparts. The principal contribution of this work is thus a large-scale dataset, called Common Objects in 3D, with real multi-view images of object categories annotated with camera poses and ground truth 3D point clouds. The dataset contains a total of 1.5 million frames from nearly 19,000 videos capturing objects from 50 MS-COCO categories and, as such, it is significantly larger than alternatives both in terms of the number of categories and objects. We exploit this new dataset to conduct one of the first large-scale "in-the-wild" evaluations of several new-view-synthesis and category-centric 3D reconstruction methods. Finally, we contribute NerFormer - a novel neural rendering method that leverages the powerful Transformer to reconstruct an object given a small number of its views. The CO3D dataset is available at https://github.com/facebookresearch/co3d .

759
Toward Realistic Single-View 3D Object Reconstruction with Unsupervised Learning from Multiple Images
2021-09-06
Recovering the 3D structure of an object from a single image is a challenging task due to its ill-posed nature. One approach is to utilize the plentiful photos of the same object category to learn a strong 3D shape prior for the object. This approach has successfully been demonstrated by a recent work of Wu et al. (2020), which obtained impressive 3D reconstruction networks with unsupervised learning. However, their algorithm is only applicable to symmetric objects. In this paper, we eliminate the symmetry requirement with a novel unsupervised algorithm that can learn a 3D reconstruction network from a multi-image dataset. Our algorithm is more general and covers the symmetry-required scenario as a special case. Besides, we employ a novel albedo loss that improves the reconstructed details and realisticity. Our method surpasses the previous work in both quality and robustness, as shown in experiments on datasets of various structures, including single-view, multi-view, image-collection, and video sets.

772
PDC-Net+: Enhanced Probabilistic Dense Correspondence Network
2021-09-28
Establishing robust and accurate correspondences between a pair of images is a long-standing computer vision problem with numerous applications. While classically dominated by sparse methods, emerging dense approaches offer a compelling alternative paradigm that avoids the keypoint detection step. However, dense flow estimation is often inaccurate in the case of large displacements, occlusions, or homogeneous regions. In order to apply dense methods to real-world applications, such as pose estimation, image manipulation, or 3D reconstruction, it is therefore crucial to estimate the confidence of the predicted matches. We propose the Enhanced Probabilistic Dense Correspondence Network, PDC-Net+, capable of estimating accurate dense correspondences along with a reliable confidence map. We develop a flexible probabilistic approach that jointly learns the flow prediction and its uncertainty. In particular, we parametrize the predictive distribution as a constrained mixture model, ensuring better modelling of both accurate flow predictions and outliers. Moreover, we develop an architecture and an enhanced training strategy tailored for robust and generalizable uncertainty prediction in the context of self-supervised training. Our approach obtains state-of-the-art results on multiple challenging geometric matching and optical flow datasets. We further validate the usefulness of our probabilistic confidence estimation for the tasks of pose estimation, 3D reconstruction, image-based localization, and image retrieval. Code and models are available at https://github.com/PruneTruong/DenseMatching.

774
Hierarchical Kinematic Probability Distributions for 3D Human Shape and Pose Estimation from Images in the Wild
2021-10-03
This paper addresses the problem of 3D human body shape and pose estimation from an RGB image. This is often an ill-posed problem, since multiple plausible 3D bodies may match the visual evidence present in the input - particularly when the subject is occluded. Thus, it is desirable to estimate a distribution over 3D body shape and pose conditioned on the input image instead of a single 3D reconstruction. We train a deep neural network to estimate a hierarchical matrix-Fisher distribution over relative 3D joint rotation matrices (i.e. body pose), which exploits the human body's kinematic tree structure, as well as a Gaussian distribution over SMPL body shape parameters. To further ensure that the predicted shape and pose distributions match the visual evidence in the input image, we implement a differentiable rejection sampler to impose a reprojection loss between ground-truth 2D joint coordinates and samples from the predicted distributions, projected onto the image plane. We show that our method is competitive with the state-of-the-art in terms of 3D shape and pose metrics on the SSP-3D and 3DPW datasets, while also yielding a structured probability distribution over 3D body shape and pose, with which we can meaningfully quantify prediction uncertainty and sample multiple plausible 3D reconstructions to explain a given input image. Code is available at https://github.com/akashsengupta1997/HierarchicalProbabilistic3DHuman .

788
TreeGCN-ED: Encoding Point Cloud using a Tree-Structured Graph Network
2021-10-07
Point cloud is one of the widely used techniques for representing and storing 3D geometric data. In the past several methods have been proposed for processing point clouds. Methods such as PointNet and FoldingNet have shown promising results for tasks like 3D shape classification and segmentation. This work proposes a tree-structured autoencoder framework to generate robust embeddings of point clouds by utilizing hierarchical information using graph convolution. We perform multiple experiments to assess the quality of embeddings generated by the proposed encoder architecture and visualize the t-SNE map to highlight its ability to distinguish between different object classes. We further demonstrate the applicability of the proposed framework in applications like: 3D point cloud completion and Single image-based 3D reconstruction.

792
ABO: Dataset and Benchmarks for Real-World 3D Object Understanding
2021-10-12
We introduce Amazon Berkeley Objects (ABO), a new large-scale dataset designed to help bridge the gap between real and virtual 3D worlds. ABO contains product catalog images, metadata, and artist-created 3D models with complex geometries and physically-based materials that correspond to real, household objects. We derive challenging benchmarks that exploit the unique properties of ABO and measure the current limits of the state-of-the-art on three open problems for real-world 3D object understanding: single-view 3D reconstruction, material estimation, and cross-domain multi-view object retrieval.

800
AIR-Nets: An Attention-Based Framework for Locally Conditioned Implicit Representations
2021-10-22
This paper introduces Attentive Implicit Representation Networks (AIR-Nets), a simple, but highly effective architecture for 3D reconstruction from point clouds. Since representing 3D shapes in a local and modular fashion increases generalization and reconstruction quality, AIR-Nets encode an input point cloud into a set of local latent vectors anchored in 3D space, which locally describe the object's geometry, as well as a global latent description, enforcing global consistency. Our model is the first grid-free, encoder-based approach that locally describes an implicit function. The vector attention mechanism from [Zhao et al. 2020] serves as main point cloud processing module, and allows for permutation invariance and translation equivariance. When queried with a 3D coordinate, our decoder gathers information from the global and nearby local latent vectors in order to predict an occupancy value. Experiments on the ShapeNet dataset show that AIR-Nets significantly outperform previous state-of-the-art encoder-based, implicit shape learning methods and especially dominate in the sparse setting. Furthermore, our model generalizes well to the FAUST dataset in a zero-shot setting. Finally, since AIR-Nets use a sparse latent representation and follow a simple operating scheme, the model offers several exiting avenues for future work. Our code is available at https://github.com/SimonGiebenhain/AIR-Nets.

802
IVS3D: An Open Source Framework for Intelligent Video Sampling and Preprocessing to Facilitate 3D Reconstruction
2021-10-22
The creation of detailed 3D models is relevant for a wide range of applications such as navigation in three-dimensional space, construction planning or disaster assessment. However, the complex processing and long execution time for detailed 3D reconstructions require the original database to be reduced in order to obtain a result in reasonable time. In this paper we therefore present our framework iVS3D for intelligent pre-processing of image sequences. Our software is able to down sample entire videos to a specific frame rate, as well as to resize and crop the individual images. Furthermore, thanks to our modular architecture, it is easy to develop and integrate plugins with additional algorithms. We provide three plugins as baseline methods that enable an intelligent selection of suitable images and can enrich them with additional information. To filter out images affected by motion blur, we developed a plugin that detects these frames and also searches the spatial neighbourhood for suitable images as replacements. The second plugin uses optical flow to detect redundant images caused by a temporarily stationary camera. In our experiments, we show how this approach leads to a more balanced image sampling if the camera speed varies, and that excluding such redundant images leads to a time saving of 8.1\percent for our sequences. A third plugin makes it possible to exclude challenging image regions from the 3D reconstruction by performing semantic segmentation. As we think that the community can greatly benefit from such an approach, we will publish our framework and the developed plugins open source using the MIT licence to allow co-development and easy extension.

804
TMBuD: A dataset for urban scene building detection
2021-10-27
Building recognition and 3D reconstruction of human made structures in urban scenarios has become an interesting and actual topic in the image processing domain. For this research topic the Computer Vision and Augmented Reality areas intersect for creating a better understanding of the urban scenario for various topics. In this paper we aim to introduce a dataset solution, the TMBuD, that is better fitted for image processing on human made structures for urban scene scenarios. The proposed dataset will allow proper evaluation of salient edges and semantic segmentation of images focusing on the street view perspective of buildings. The images that form our dataset offer various street view perspectives of buildings from urban scenarios, which allows for evaluating complex algorithms. The dataset features 160 images of buildings from Timisoara, Romania, with a resolution of 768 x 1024 pixels each.

805
UltraPose: Synthesizing Dense Pose with 1 Billion Points by Human-body Decoupling 3D Model
2021-10-28
Recovering dense human poses from images plays a critical role in establishing an image-to-surface correspondence between RGB images and the 3D surface of the human body, serving the foundation of rich real-world applications, such as virtual humans, monocular-to-3d reconstruction. However, the popular DensePose-COCO dataset relies on a sophisticated manual annotation system, leading to severe limitations in acquiring the denser and more accurate annotated pose resources. In this work, we introduce a new 3D human-body model with a series of decoupled parameters that could freely control the generation of the body. Furthermore, we build a data generation system based on this decoupling 3D model, and construct an ultra dense synthetic benchmark UltraPose, containing around 1.3 billion corresponding points. Compared to the existing manually annotated DensePose-COCO dataset, the synthetic UltraPose has ultra dense image-to-surface correspondences without annotation cost and error. Our proposed UltraPose provides the largest benchmark and data resources for lifting the model capability in predicting more accurate dense poses. To promote future researches in this field, we also propose a transformer-based method to model the dense correspondence between 2D and 3D worlds. The proposed model trained on synthetic UltraPose can be applied to real-world scenarios, indicating the effectiveness of our benchmark and model.

807
FaceScape: 3D Facial Dataset and Benchmark for Single-View 3D Face Reconstruction
2021-11-01
In this paper, we present a large-scale detailed 3D face dataset, FaceScape, and the corresponding benchmark to evaluate single-view facial 3D reconstruction. By training on FaceScape data, a novel algorithm is proposed to predict elaborate riggable 3D face models from a single image input. FaceScape dataset provides 18,760 textured 3D faces, captured from 938 subjects and each with 20 specific expressions. The 3D models contain the pore-level facial geometry that is also processed to be topologically uniformed. These fine 3D facial models can be represented as a 3D morphable model for rough shapes and displacement maps for detailed geometry. Taking advantage of the large-scale and high-accuracy dataset, a novel algorithm is further proposed to learn the expression-specific dynamic details using a deep neural network. The learned relationship serves as the foundation of our 3D face prediction system from a single image input. Different than the previous methods, our predicted 3D models are riggable with highly detailed geometry under different expressions. We also use FaceScape data to generate the in-the-wild and in-the-lab benchmark to evaluate recent methods of single-view face reconstruction. The accuracy is reported and analyzed on the dimensions of camera pose and focal length, which provides a faithful and comprehensive evaluation and reveals new challenges. The unprecedented dataset, benchmark, and code have been released to the public for research purpose.

815
Neural Fields in Visual Computing and Beyond
2021-11-22
Recent advances in machine learning have created increasing interest in solving visual computing problems using a class of coordinate-based neural networks that parametrize physical properties of scenes or objects across space and time. These methods, which we call neural fields, have seen successful application in the synthesis of 3D shapes and image, animation of human bodies, 3D reconstruction, and pose estimation. However, due to rapid progress in a short time, many papers exist but a comprehensive review and formulation of the problem has not yet emerged. In this report, we address this limitation by providing context, mathematical grounding, and an extensive review of literature on neural fields. This report covers research along two dimensions. In Part I, we focus on techniques in neural fields by identifying common components of neural field methods, including different representations, architectures, forward mapping, and generalization methods. In Part II, we focus on applications of neural fields to different problems in visual computing, and beyond (e.g., robotics, audio). Our review shows the breadth of topics already covered in visual computing, both historically and in current incarnations, demonstrating the improved quality, flexibility, and capability brought by neural fields methods. Finally, we present a companion website that contributes a living version of this review that can be continually updated by the community.

819
Gradient-SDF: A Semi-Implicit Surface Representation for 3D Reconstruction
2021-11-26
We present Gradient-SDF, a novel representation for 3D geometry that combines the advantages of implict and explicit representations. By storing at every voxel both the signed distance field as well as its gradient vector field, we enhance the capability of implicit representations with approaches originally formulated for explicit surfaces. As concrete examples, we show that (1) the Gradient-SDF allows us to perform direct SDF tracking from depth images, using efficient storage schemes like hash maps, and that (2) the Gradient-SDF representation enables us to perform photometric bundle adjustment directly in a voxel representation (without transforming into a point cloud or mesh), naturally a fully implicit optimization of geometry and camera poses and easy geometry upsampling. Experimental results confirm that this leads to significantly sharper reconstructions. Since the overall SDF voxel structure is still respected, the proposed Gradient-SDF is equally suited for (GPU) parallelization as related approaches.

820
Exploiting full Resolution Feature Context for Liver Tumor and Vessel Segmentation via Integrate Framework: Application to Liver Tumor and Vessel 3D Reconstruction under embedded microprocessor
2021-11-26
Liver cancer is one of the most common malignant diseases in the world. Segmentation and labeling of liver tumors and blood vessels in CT images can provide convenience for doctors in liver tumor diagnosis and surgical intervention. In the past decades, many state-of-the-art medical image segmentation algorithms appeared during this period. With the development of embedded devices, embedded deployment for medical segmentation and automatic reconstruction brings prospects for future automated surgical tasks. Yet, most of the existing segmentation methods mostly care about the spatial feature context and have a perception defect in the semantic relevance of medical images, which significantly affects the segmentation accuracy of liver tumors and blood vessels. Deploying large and complex models into embedded devices requires a reasonable trade-off between model accuracy, reasoning speed and model capacity. Given these problems, we introduce a multi-scale feature fusion network called TransFusionNet based on Transformer. This network achieved very competitive performance for liver vessel and liver tumor segmentation tasks, meanwhile it can improve the recognition of morphologic margins of liver tumors by exploiting the global information of CT images. Experiments show that in vessel segmentation task TransFusionNet achieved mean Dice coefficients of 0.899 and in liver tumor segmentation task TransFusionNet achieved mean Dice coefficients of 0.961. Compared with the state-of-the-art framework, our model achieves the best segmentation result. In addition, we deployed the model into an embedded micro-structure and constructed an integrated model for liver tumor vascular segmentation and reconstruction. This proprietary structure will be the exclusive component of the future medical field.

821
VaxNeRF: Revisiting the Classic for Voxel-Accelerated Neural Radiance Field
2021-11-25
Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) is a popular method in data-driven 3D reconstruction. Given its simplicity and high quality rendering, many NeRF applications are being developed. However, NeRF's big limitation is its slow speed. Many attempts are made to speeding up NeRF training and inference, including intricate code-level optimization and caching, use of sophisticated data structures, and amortization through multi-task and meta learning. In this work, we revisit the basic building blocks of NeRF through the lens of classic techniques before NeRF. We propose Voxel-Accelearated NeRF (VaxNeRF), integrating NeRF with visual hull, a classic 3D reconstruction technique only requiring binary foreground-background pixel labels per image. Visual hull, which can be optimized in about 10 seconds, can provide coarse in-out field separation to omit substantial amounts of network evaluations in NeRF. We provide a clean fully-pythonic, JAX-based implementation on the popular JaxNeRF codebase, consisting of only about 30 lines of code changes and a modular visual hull subroutine, and achieve about 2-8x faster learning on top of the highly-performative JaxNeRF baseline with zero degradation in rendering quality. With sufficient compute, this effectively brings down full NeRF training from hours to 30 minutes. We hope VaxNeRF -- a careful combination of a classic technique with a deep method (that arguably replaced it) -- can empower and accelerate new NeRF extensions and applications, with its simplicity, portability, and reliable performance gains. Codes are available at https://github.com/naruya/VaxNeRF .

822
Motion-from-Blur: 3D Shape and Motion Estimation of Motion-blurred Objects in Videos
2021-11-29
We propose a method for jointly estimating the 3D motion, 3D shape, and appearance of highly motion-blurred objects from a video. To this end, we model the blurred appearance of a fast moving object in a generative fashion by parametrizing its 3D position, rotation, velocity, acceleration, bounces, shape, and texture over the duration of a predefined time window spanning multiple frames. Using differentiable rendering, we are able to estimate all parameters by minimizing the pixel-wise reprojection error to the input video via backpropagating through a rendering pipeline that accounts for motion blur by averaging the graphics output over short time intervals. For that purpose, we also estimate the camera exposure gap time within the same optimization. To account for abrupt motion changes like bounces, we model the motion trajectory as a piece-wise polynomial, and we are able to estimate the specific time of the bounce at sub-frame accuracy. Experiments on established benchmark datasets demonstrate that our method outperforms previous methods for fast moving object deblurring and 3D reconstruction.

824
TransMVSNet: Global Context-aware Multi-view Stereo Network with Transformers
2021-11-29
In this paper, we present TransMVSNet, based on our exploration of feature matching in multi-view stereo (MVS). We analogize MVS back to its nature of a feature matching task and therefore propose a powerful Feature Matching Transformer (FMT) to leverage intra- (self-) and inter- (cross-) attention to aggregate long-range context information within and across images. To facilitate a better adaptation of the FMT, we leverage an Adaptive Receptive Field (ARF) module to ensure a smooth transit in scopes of features and bridge different stages with a feature pathway to pass transformed features and gradients across different scales. In addition, we apply pair-wise feature correlation to measure similarity between features, and adopt ambiguity-reducing focal loss to strengthen the supervision. To the best of our knowledge, TransMVSNet is the first attempt to leverage Transformer into the task of MVS. As a result, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on DTU dataset, Tanks and Temples benchmark, and BlendedMVS dataset. The code of our method will be made available at https://github.com/MegviiRobot/TransMVSNet .

827
A Dataset-Dispersion Perspective on Reconstruction Versus Recognition in Single-View 3D Reconstruction Networks
2021-11-30
Neural networks (NN) for single-view 3D reconstruction (SVR) have gained in popularity. Recent work points out that for SVR, most cutting-edge NNs have limited performance on reconstructing unseen objects because they rely primarily on recognition (i.e., classification-based methods) rather than shape reconstruction. To understand this issue in depth, we provide a systematic study on when and why NNs prefer recognition to reconstruction and vice versa. Our finding shows that a leading factor in determining recognition versus reconstruction is how dispersed the training data is. Thus, we introduce the dispersion score, a new data-driven metric, to quantify this leading factor and study its effect on NNs. We hypothesize that NNs are biased toward recognition when training images are more dispersed and training shapes are less dispersed. Our hypothesis is supported and the dispersion score is proved effective through our experiments on synthetic and benchmark datasets. We show that the proposed metric is a principal way to analyze reconstruction quality and provides novel information in addition to the conventional reconstruction score.

829
MonoScene: Monocular 3D Semantic Scene Completion
2021-12-01
MonoScene proposes a 3D Semantic Scene Completion (SSC) framework, where the dense geometry and semantics of a scene are inferred from a single monocular RGB image. Different from the SSC literature, relying on 2.5 or 3D input, we solve the complex problem of 2D to 3D scene reconstruction while jointly inferring its semantics. Our framework relies on successive 2D and 3D UNets bridged by a novel 2D-3D features projection inspiring from optics and introduces a 3D context relation prior to enforce spatio-semantic consistency. Along with architectural contributions, we introduce novel global scene and local frustums losses. Experiments show we outperform the literature on all metrics and datasets while hallucinating plausible scenery even beyond the camera field of view. Our code and trained models are available at https://github.com/cv-rits/MonoScene.

830
3D Reconstruction Using a Linear Laser Scanner and a Camera
2021-12-01
With the rapid development of computer graphics and vision, several three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction techniques have been proposed and used to obtain the 3D representation of objects in the form of point cloud models, mesh models, and geometric models. The cost of 3D reconstruction is declining due to the maturing of this technology, however, the inexpensive 3D reconstruction scanners on the market may not be able to generate a clear point cloud model as expected. This study systematically reviews some basic types of 3D reconstruction technology and introduces an easy implementation using a linear laser scanner, a camera, and a turntable. The implementation is based on the monovision with laser and has tested several objects like wiki and mug. The accuracy and resolution of the point cloud result are quite satisfying. It turns out everyone can build such a 3D reconstruction system with appropriate procedures.

832
3DVNet: Multi-View Depth Prediction and Volumetric Refinement
2021-12-01
We present 3DVNet, a novel multi-view stereo (MVS) depth-prediction method that combines the advantages of previous depth-based and volumetric MVS approaches. Our key idea is the use of a 3D scene-modeling network that iteratively updates a set of coarse depth predictions, resulting in highly accurate predictions which agree on the underlying scene geometry. Unlike existing depth-prediction techniques, our method uses a volumetric 3D convolutional neural network (CNN) that operates in world space on all depth maps jointly. The network can therefore learn meaningful scene-level priors. Furthermore, unlike existing volumetric MVS techniques, our 3D CNN operates on a feature-augmented point cloud, allowing for effective aggregation of multi-view information and flexible iterative refinement of depth maps. Experimental results show our method exceeds state-of-the-art accuracy in both depth prediction and 3D reconstruction metrics on the ScanNet dataset, as well as a selection of scenes from the TUM-RGBD and ICL-NUIM datasets. This shows that our method is both effective and generalizes to new settings.

833
Generating Diverse 3D Reconstructions from a Single Occluded Face Image
2021-12-01
Occlusions are a common occurrence in unconstrained face images. Single image 3D reconstruction from such face images often suffers from corruption due to the presence of occlusions. Furthermore, while a plurality of 3D reconstructions is plausible in the occluded regions, existing approaches are limited to generating only a single solution. To address both of these challenges, we present Diverse3DFace, which is specifically designed to simultaneously generate a diverse and realistic set of 3D reconstructions from a single occluded face image. It consists of three components: a global+local shape fitting process, a graph neural network-based mesh VAE, and a Determinantal Point Process based diversity promoting iterative optimization procedure. Quantitative and qualitative comparisons of 3D reconstruction on occluded faces show that Diverse3DFace can estimate 3D shapes that are consistent with the visible regions in the target image while exhibiting high, yet realistic, levels of diversity on the occluded regions. On face images occluded by masks, glasses, and other random objects, Diverse3DFace generates a distribution of 3D shapes having ~50% higher diversity on the occluded regions compared to the baselines. Moreover, our closest sample to the ground truth has ~40% lower MSE than the singular reconstructions by existing approaches.

834
CoNeRF: Controllable Neural Radiance Fields
2021-12-03
We extend neural 3D representations to allow for intuitive and interpretable user control beyond novel view rendering (i.e. camera control). We allow the user to annotate which part of the scene one wishes to control with just a small number of mask annotations in the training images. Our key idea is to treat the attributes as latent variables that are regressed by the neural network given the scene encoding. This leads to a few-shot learning framework, where attributes are discovered automatically by the framework, when annotations are not provided. We apply our method to various scenes with different types of controllable attributes (e.g. expression control on human faces, or state control in movement of inanimate objects). Overall, we demonstrate, to the best of our knowledge, for the first time novel view and novel attribute re-rendering of scenes from a single video.

837
Generalized Binary Search Network for Highly-Efficient Multi-View Stereo
2021-12-04
Multi-view Stereo (MVS) with known camera parameters is essentially a 1D search problem within a valid depth range. Recent deep learning-based MVS methods typically densely sample depth hypotheses in the depth range, and then construct prohibitively memory-consuming 3D cost volumes for depth prediction. Although coarse-to-fine sampling strategies alleviate this overhead issue to a certain extent, the efficiency of MVS is still an open challenge. In this work, we propose a novel method for highly efficient MVS that remarkably decreases the memory footprint, meanwhile clearly advancing state-of-the-art depth prediction performance. We investigate what a search strategy can be reasonably optimal for MVS taking into account of both efficiency and effectiveness. We first formulate MVS as a binary search problem, and accordingly propose a generalized binary search network for MVS. Specifically, in each step, the depth range is split into 2 bins with extra 1 error tolerance bin on both sides. A classification is performed to identify which bin contains the true depth. We also design three mechanisms to respectively handle classification errors, deal with out-of-range samples and decrease the training memory. The new formulation makes our method only sample a very small number of depth hypotheses in each step, which is highly memory efficient, and also greatly facilitates quick training convergence. Experiments on competitive benchmarks show that our method achieves state-of-the-art accuracy with much less memory. Particularly, our method obtains an overall score of 0.289 on DTU dataset and tops the first place on challenging Tanks and Temples advanced dataset among all the learning-based methods. The trained models and code will be released at https://github.com/MiZhenxing/GBi-Net.

840
ScaleNet: A Shallow Architecture for Scale Estimation
2021-12-09
In this paper, we address the problem of estimating scale factors between images. We formulate the scale estimation problem as a prediction of a probability distribution over scale factors. We design a new architecture, ScaleNet, that exploits dilated convolutions as well as self and cross-correlation layers to predict the scale between images. We demonstrate that rectifying images with estimated scales leads to significant performance improvements for various tasks and methods. Specifically, we show how ScaleNet can be combined with sparse local features and dense correspondence networks to improve camera pose estimation, 3D reconstruction, or dense geometric matching in different benchmarks and datasets. We provide an extensive evaluation on several tasks and analyze the computational overhead of ScaleNet. The code, evaluation protocols, and trained models are publicly available at https://github.com/axelBarroso/ScaleNet.

845
Curvature-guided dynamic scale networks for Multi-view Stereo
2021-12-11
Multi-view stereo (MVS) is a crucial task for precise 3D reconstruction. Most recent studies tried to improve the performance of matching cost volume in MVS by designing aggregated 3D cost volumes and their regularization. This paper focuses on learning a robust feature extraction network to enhance the performance of matching costs without heavy computation in the other steps. In particular, we present a dynamic scale feature extraction network, namely, CDSFNet. It is composed of multiple novel convolution layers, each of which can select a proper patch scale for each pixel guided by the normal curvature of the image surface. As a result, CDFSNet can estimate the optimal patch scales to learn discriminative features for accurate matching computation between reference and source images. By combining the robust extracted features with an appropriate cost formulation strategy, our resulting MVS architecture can estimate depth maps more precisely. Extensive experiments showed that the proposed method outperforms other state-of-the-art methods on complex outdoor scenes. It significantly improves the completeness of reconstructed models. As a result, the method can process higher resolution inputs within faster run-time and lower memory than other MVS methods. Our source code is available at url{https://github.com/TruongKhang/cds-mvsnet}.

846
GCNDepth: Self-supervised Monocular Depth Estimation based on Graph Convolutional Network
2021-12-13
Depth estimation is a challenging task of 3D reconstruction to enhance the accuracy sensing of environment awareness. This work brings a new solution with a set of improvements, which increase the quantitative and qualitative understanding of depth maps compared to existing methods. Recently, a convolutional neural network (CNN) has demonstrated its extraordinary ability in estimating depth maps from monocular videos. However, traditional CNN does not support topological structure and they can work only on regular image regions with determined size and weights. On the other hand, graph convolutional networks (GCN) can handle the convolution on non-Euclidean data and it can be applied to irregular image regions within a topological structure. Therefore, in this work in order to preserve object geometric appearances and distributions, we aim at exploiting GCN for a self-supervised depth estimation model. Our model consists of two parallel auto-encoder networks: the first is an auto-encoder that will depend on ResNet-50 and extract the feature from the input image and on multi-scale GCN to estimate the depth map. In turn, the second network will be used to estimate the ego-motion vector (i.e., 3D pose) between two consecutive frames based on ResNet-18. Both the estimated 3D pose and depth map will be used for constructing a target image. A combination of loss functions related to photometric, projection, and smoothness is used to cope with bad depth prediction and preserve the discontinuities of the objects. In particular, our method provided comparable and promising results with a high prediction accuracy of 89% on the publicly KITTI and Make3D datasets along with a reduction of 40% in the number of trainable parameters compared to the state of the art solutions. The source code is publicly available at https://github.com/ArminMasoumian/GCNDepth.git

850
Multi-View Partial (MVP) Point Cloud Challenge 2021 on Completion and Registration: Methods and Results
2021-12-22
As real-scanned point clouds are mostly partial due to occlusions and viewpoints, reconstructing complete 3D shapes based on incomplete observations becomes a fundamental problem for computer vision. With a single incomplete point cloud, it becomes the partial point cloud completion problem. Given multiple different observations, 3D reconstruction can be addressed by performing partial-to-partial point cloud registration. Recently, a large-scale Multi-View Partial (MVP) point cloud dataset has been released, which consists of over 100,000 high-quality virtual-scanned partial point clouds. Based on the MVP dataset, this paper reports methods and results in the Multi-View Partial Point Cloud Challenge 2021 on Completion and Registration. In total, 128 participants registered for the competition, and 31 teams made valid submissions. The top-ranked solutions will be analyzed, and then we will discuss future research directions.

851
ACDNet: Adaptively Combined Dilated Convolution for Monocular Panorama Depth Estimation
2021-12-29
Depth estimation is a crucial step for 3D reconstruction with panorama images in recent years. Panorama images maintain the complete spatial information but introduce distortion with equirectangular projection. In this paper, we propose an ACDNet based on the adaptively combined dilated convolution to predict the dense depth map for a monocular panoramic image. Specifically, we combine the convolution kernels with different dilations to extend the receptive field in the equirectangular projection. Meanwhile, we introduce an adaptive channel-wise fusion module to summarize the feature maps and get diverse attention areas in the receptive field along the channels. Due to the utilization of channel-wise attention in constructing the adaptive channel-wise fusion module, the network can capture and leverage the cross-channel contextual information efficiently. Finally, we conduct depth estimation experiments on three datasets (both virtual and real-world) and the experimental results demonstrate that our proposed ACDNet substantially outperforms the current state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods. Our codes and model parameters are accessed in https://github.com/zcq15/ACDNet.

854
Improving neural implicit surfaces geometry with patch warping
2021-12-17
Neural implicit surfaces have become an important technique for multi-view 3D reconstruction but their accuracy remains limited. In this paper, we argue that this comes from the difficulty to learn and render high frequency textures with neural networks. We thus propose to add to the standard neural rendering optimization a direct photo-consistency term across the different views. Intuitively, we optimize the implicit geometry so that it warps views on each other in a consistent way. We demonstrate that two elements are key to the success of such an approach: (i) warping entire patches, using the predicted occupancy and normals of the 3D points along each ray, and measuring their similarity with a robust structural similarity (SSIM); (ii) handling visibility and occlusion in such a way that incorrect warps are not given too much importance while encouraging a reconstruction as complete as possible. We evaluate our approach, dubbed NeuralWarp, on the standard DTU and EPFL benchmarks and show it outperforms state of the art unsupervised implicit surfaces reconstructions by over 20% on both datasets.

855
ADJUST: A Dictionary-Based Joint Reconstruction and Unmixing Method for Spectral Tomography
2021-12-21
Advances in multi-spectral detectors are causing a paradigm shift in X-ray Computed Tomography (CT). Spectral information acquired from these detectors can be used to extract volumetric material composition maps of the object of interest. If the materials and their spectral responses are known a priori, the image reconstruction step is rather straightforward. If they are not known, however, the maps as well as the responses need to be estimated jointly. A conventional workflow in spectral CT involves performing volume reconstruction followed by material decomposition, or vice versa. However, these methods inherently suffer from the ill-posedness of the joint reconstruction problem. To resolve this issue, we propose 'A Dictionary-based Joint reconstruction and Unmixing method for Spectral Tomography' (ADJUST). Our formulation relies on forming a dictionary of spectral signatures of materials common in CT and prior knowledge of the number of materials present in an object. In particular, we decompose the spectral volume linearly in terms of spatial material maps, a spectral dictionary, and the indicator of materials for the dictionary elements. We propose a memory-efficient accelerated alternating proximal gradient method to find an approximate solution to the resulting bi-convex problem. From numerical demonstrations on several synthetic phantoms, we observe that ADJUST performs exceedingly well compared to other state-of-the-art methods. Additionally, we address the robustness of ADJUST against limited and noisy measurement patterns. The demonstration of the proposed approach on a spectral micro-CT dataset shows its potential for real-world applications. Code is available at https://github.com/mzeegers/ADJUST.

858
Rethinking Depth Estimation for Multi-View Stereo: A Unified Representation
2022-01-05
Depth estimation is solved as a regression or classification problem in existing learning-based multi-view stereo methods. Although these two representations have recently demonstrated their excellent performance, they still have apparent shortcomings, e.g., regression methods tend to overfit due to the indirect learning cost volume, and classification methods cannot directly infer the exact depth due to its discrete prediction. In this paper, we propose a novel representation, termed Unification, to unify the advantages of regression and classification. It can directly constrain the cost volume like classification methods, but also realize the sub-pixel depth prediction like regression methods. To excavate the potential of unification, we design a new loss function named Unified Focal Loss, which is more uniform and reasonable to combat the challenge of sample imbalance. Combining these two unburdened modules, we present a coarse-to-fine framework, that we call UniMVSNet. The results of ranking first on both DTU and Tanks and Temples benchmarks verify that our model not only performs the best but also has the best generalization ability.

859
POCO: Point Convolution for Surface Reconstruction
2022-01-05
Implicit neural networks have been successfully used for surface reconstruction from point clouds. However, many of them face scalability issues as they encode the isosurface function of a whole object or scene into a single latent vector. To overcome this limitation, a few approaches infer latent vectors on a coarse regular 3D grid or on 3D patches, and interpolate them to answer occupancy queries. In doing so, they loose the direct connection with the input points sampled on the surface of objects, and they attach information uniformly in space rather than where it matters the most, i.e., near the surface. Besides, relying on fixed patch sizes may require discretization tuning. To address these issues, we propose to use point cloud convolutions and compute latent vectors at each input point. We then perform a learning-based interpolation on nearest neighbors using inferred weights. Experiments on both object and scene datasets show that our approach significantly outperforms other methods on most classical metrics, producing finer details and better reconstructing thinner volumes. The code is available at https://github.com/valeoai/POCO.

860
Instant Neural Graphics Primitives with a Multiresolution Hash Encoding
2022-01-16
Neural graphics primitives, parameterized by fully connected neural networks, can be costly to train and evaluate. We reduce this cost with a versatile new input encoding that permits the use of a smaller network without sacrificing quality, thus significantly reducing the number of floating point and memory access operations: a small neural network is augmented by a multiresolution hash table of trainable feature vectors whose values are optimized through stochastic gradient descent. The multiresolution structure allows the network to disambiguate hash collisions, making for a simple architecture that is trivial to parallelize on modern GPUs. We leverage this parallelism by implementing the whole system using fully-fused CUDA kernels with a focus on minimizing wasted bandwidth and compute operations. We achieve a combined speedup of several orders of magnitude, enabling training of high-quality neural graphics primitives in a matter of seconds, and rendering in tens of milliseconds at a resolution of ${1920\!\times\!1080}$.

861
Point-NeRF: Point-based Neural Radiance Fields
2022-01-21
Volumetric neural rendering methods like NeRF generate high-quality view synthesis results but are optimized per-scene leading to prohibitive reconstruction time. On the other hand, deep multi-view stereo methods can quickly reconstruct scene geometry via direct network inference. Point-NeRF combines the advantages of these two approaches by using neural 3D point clouds, with associated neural features, to model a radiance field. Point-NeRF can be rendered efficiently by aggregating neural point features near scene surfaces, in a ray marching-based rendering pipeline. Moreover, Point-NeRF can be initialized via direct inference of a pre-trained deep network to produce a neural point cloud; this point cloud can be finetuned to surpass the visual quality of NeRF with 30X faster training time. Point-NeRF can be combined with other 3D reconstruction methods and handles the errors and outliers in such methods via a novel pruning and growing mechanism. The experiments on the DTU, the NeRF Synthetics , the ScanNet and the Tanks and Temples datasets demonstrate Point-NeRF can surpass the existing methods and achieve the state-of-the-art results.

863
FaceOcc: A Diverse, High-quality Face Occlusion Dataset for Human Face Extraction
2022-01-20
Occlusions often occur in face images in the wild, troubling face-related tasks such as landmark detection, 3D reconstruction, and face recognition. It is beneficial to extract face regions from unconstrained face images accurately. However, current face segmentation datasets suffer from small data volumes, few occlusion types, low resolution, and imprecise annotation, limiting the performance of data-driven-based algorithms. This paper proposes a novel face occlusion dataset with manually labeled face occlusions from the CelebA-HQ and the internet. The occlusion types cover sunglasses, spectacles, hands, masks, scarfs, microphones, etc. To the best of our knowledge, it is by far the largest and most comprehensive face occlusion dataset. Combining it with the attribute mask in CelebAMask-HQ, we trained a straightforward face segmentation model but obtained SOTA performance, convincingly demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed dataset.

867
Phase-SLAM: Phase Based Simultaneous Localization and Mapping for Mobile Structured Light Illumination Systems
2022-01-22
Structured Light Illumination (SLI) systems have been used for reliable indoor dense 3D scanning via phase triangulation. However, mobile SLI systems for 360 degree 3D reconstruction demand 3D point cloud registration, involving high computational complexity. In this paper, we propose a phase based Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (Phase-SLAM) framework for fast and accurate SLI sensor pose estimation and 3D object reconstruction. The novelty of this work is threefold: (1) developing a reprojection model from 3D points to 2D phase data towards phase registration with low computational complexity; (2) developing a local optimizer to achieve SLI sensor pose estimation (odometry) using the derived Jacobian matrix for the 6 DoF variables; (3) developing a compressive phase comparison method to achieve high-efficiency loop closure detection. The whole Phase-SLAM pipeline is then exploited using existing global pose graph optimization techniques. We build datasets from both the unreal simulation platform and a robotic arm based SLI system in real-world to verify the proposed approach. The experiment results demonstrate that the proposed Phase-SLAM outperforms other state-of-the-art methods in terms of the efficiency and accuracy of pose estimation and 3D reconstruction. The open-source code is available at https://github.com/ZHENGXi-git/Phase-SLAM.

868
On the Issues of TrueDepth Sensor Data for Computer Vision Tasks Across Different iPad Generations
2022-01-26
In 2017 Apple introduced the TrueDepth sensor with the iPhone X release. Although its primary use case is biometric face recognition, the exploitation of accurate depth data for other computer vision tasks like segmentation, portrait image generation and metric 3D reconstruction seems natural and lead to the development of various applications. In this report, we investigate the reliability of TrueDepth data - accessed through two different APIs - on various devices including different iPhone and iPad generations and reveal two different and significant issues on all tested iPads.

872
HRBF-Fusion: Accurate 3D reconstruction from RGB-D data using on-the-fly implicits
2022-02-03
Reconstruction of high-fidelity 3D objects or scenes is a fundamental research problem. Recent advances in RGB-D fusion have demonstrated the potential of producing 3D models from consumer-level RGB-D cameras. However, due to the discrete nature and limited resolution of their surface representations (e.g., point- or voxel-based), existing approaches suffer from the accumulation of errors in camera tracking and distortion in the reconstruction, which leads to an unsatisfactory 3D reconstruction. In this paper, we present a method using on-the-fly implicits of Hermite Radial Basis Functions (HRBFs) as a continuous surface representation for camera tracking in an existing RGB-D fusion framework. Furthermore, curvature estimation and confidence evaluation are coherently derived from the inherent surface properties of the on-the-fly HRBF implicits, which devote to a data fusion with better quality. We argue that our continuous but on-the-fly surface representation can effectively mitigate the impact of noise with its robustness and constrain the reconstruction with inherent surface smoothness when being compared with discrete representations. Experimental results on various real-world and synthetic datasets demonstrate that our HRBF-fusion outperforms the state-of-the-art approaches in terms of tracking robustness and reconstruction accuracy.

873
NeAT: Neural Adaptive Tomography
2022-02-04
In this paper, we present Neural Adaptive Tomography (NeAT), the first adaptive, hierarchical neural rendering pipeline for multi-view inverse rendering. Through a combination of neural features with an adaptive explicit representation, we achieve reconstruction times far superior to existing neural inverse rendering methods. The adaptive explicit representation improves efficiency by facilitating empty space culling and concentrating samples in complex regions, while the neural features act as a neural regularizer for the 3D reconstruction. The NeAT framework is designed specifically for the tomographic setting, which consists only of semi-transparent volumetric scenes instead of opaque objects. In this setting, NeAT outperforms the quality of existing optimization-based tomography solvers while being substantially faster.

875
Automated Aircraft Dent Inspection via a Modified Fourier Transform Profilometry Algorithm
2022-01-07
The search for dents is a consistent part of the aircraft inspection workload. The engineer is required to find, measure, and report each dent over the aircraft skin. This process is not only hazardous, but also extremely subject to human factors and environmental conditions. This study discusses the feasibility of automated dent scanning via a single-shot triangular stereo Fourier transform algorithm, designed to be compatible with the use of an unmanned aerial vehicle. The original algorithm is modified introducing two main contributions. First, the automatic estimation of the pass-band filter removes the user interaction in the phase filtering process. Secondly, the employment of a virtual reference plane reduces unwrapping errors, leading to improved accuracy independently of the chosen unwrapping algorithm. Static experiments reached a mean absolute error of ∼0.1 mm at a distance of 60 cm, while dynamic experiments showed ∼0.3 mm at a distance of 120 cm. On average, the mean absolute error decreased by ∼34%, proving the validity of the proposed single-shot 3D reconstruction algorithm and suggesting its applicability for future automated dent inspections.

889
Capturing Shape Information with Multi-Scale Topological Loss Terms for 3D Reconstruction
2022-03-03
Reconstructing 3D objects from 2D images is both challenging for our brains and machine learning algorithms. To support this spatial reasoning task, contextual information about the overall shape of an object is critical. However, such information is not captured by established loss terms (e.g. Dice loss). We propose to complement geometrical shape information by including multi-scale topological features, such as connected components, cycles, and voids, in the reconstruction loss. Our method uses cubical complexes to calculate topological features of 3D volume data and employs an optimal transport distance to guide the reconstruction process. This topology-aware loss is fully differentiable, computationally efficient, and can be added to any neural network. We demonstrate the utility of our loss by incorporating it into SHAPR, a model for predicting the 3D cell shape of individual cells based on 2D microscopy images. Using a hybrid loss that leverages both geometrical and topological information of single objects to assess their shape, we find that topological information substantially improves the quality of reconstructions, thus highlighting its ability to extract more relevant features from image datasets.

891
Object Pose Estimation using Mid-level Visual Representations
2022-03-02
This work proposes a novel pose estimation model for object categories that can be effectively transferred to previously unseen environments. The deep convolutional network models (CNN) for pose estimation are typically trained and evaluated on datasets specifically curated for object detection, pose estimation, or 3D reconstruction, which requires large amounts of training data. In this work, we propose a model for pose estimation that can be trained with small amount of data and is built on the top of generic mid-level representations \cite{taskonomy2018} (e.g. surface normal estimation and re-shading). These representations are trained on a large dataset without requiring pose and object annotations. Later on, the predictions are refined with a small CNN neural network that exploits object masks and silhouette retrieval. The presented approach achieves superior performance on the Pix3D dataset \cite{pix3d} and shows nearly 35\% improvement over the existing models when only 25\% of the training data is available. We show that the approach is favorable when it comes to generalization and transfer to novel environments. Towards this end, we introduce a new pose estimation benchmark for commonly encountered furniture categories on challenging Active Vision Dataset \cite{Ammirato2017ADF} and evaluated the models trained on the Pix3D dataset.

892
Human-Aware Object Placement for Visual Environment Reconstruction
2022-03-07
Humans are in constant contact with the world as they move through it and interact with it. This contact is a vital source of information for understanding 3D humans, 3D scenes, and the interactions between them. In fact, we demonstrate that these human-scene interactions (HSIs) can be leveraged to improve the 3D reconstruction of a scene from a monocular RGB video. Our key idea is that, as a person moves through a scene and interacts with it, we accumulate HSIs across multiple input images, and optimize the 3D scene to reconstruct a consistent, physically plausible and functional 3D scene layout. Our optimization-based approach exploits three types of HSI constraints: (1) humans that move in a scene are occluded or occlude objects, thus, defining the depth ordering of the objects, (2) humans move through free space and do not interpenetrate objects, (3) when humans and objects are in contact, the contact surfaces occupy the same place in space. Using these constraints in an optimization formulation across all observations, we significantly improve the 3D scene layout reconstruction. Furthermore, we show that our scene reconstruction can be used to refine the initial 3D human pose and shape (HPS) estimation. We evaluate the 3D scene layout reconstruction and HPS estimation qualitatively and quantitatively using the PROX and PiGraphs datasets. The code and data are available for research purposes at https://mover.is.tue.mpg.de/.

893
Highly Accurate Dichotomous Image Segmentation
2022-03-06
We present a systematic study on a new task called dichotomous image segmentation (DIS) , which aims to segment highly accurate objects from natural images. To this end, we collected the first large-scale DIS dataset, called DIS5K, which contains 5,470 high-resolution (e.g., 2K, 4K or larger) images covering camouflaged, salient, or meticulous objects in various backgrounds. DIS is annotated with extremely fine-grained labels. Besides, we introduce a simple intermediate supervision baseline (IS-Net) using both feature-level and mask-level guidance for DIS model training. IS-Net outperforms various cutting-edge baselines on the proposed DIS5K, making it a general self-learned supervision network that can facilitate future research in DIS. Further, we design a new metric called human correction efforts (HCE) which approximates the number of mouse clicking operations required to correct the false positives and false negatives. HCE is utilized to measure the gap between models and real-world applications and thus can complement existing metrics. Finally, we conduct the largest-scale benchmark, evaluating 16 representative segmentation models, providing a more insightful discussion regarding object complexities, and showing several potential applications (e.g., background removal, art design, 3D reconstruction). Hoping these efforts can open up promising directions for both academic and industries. Project page: https://xuebinqin.github.io/dis/index.html.

905
3D Shape Reconstruction from 2D Images with Disentangled Attribute Flow
2022-03-29
Reconstructing 3D shape from a single 2D image is a challenging task, which needs to estimate the detailed 3D structures based on the semantic attributes from 2D image. So far, most of the previous methods still struggle to extract semantic attributes for 3D reconstruction task. Since the semantic attributes of a single image are usually implicit and entangled with each other, it is still challenging to reconstruct 3D shape with detailed semantic structures represented by the input image. To address this problem, we propose 3DAttriFlow to disentangle and extract semantic attributes through different semantic levels in the input images. These disentangled semantic attributes will be integrated into the 3D shape reconstruction process, which can provide definite guidance to the reconstruction of specific attribute on 3D shape. As a result, the 3D decoder can explicitly capture high-level semantic features at the bottom of the network, and utilize low-level features at the top of the network, which allows to reconstruct more accurate 3D shapes. Note that the explicit disentangling is learned without extra labels, where the only supervision used in our training is the input image and its corresponding 3D shape. Our comprehensive experiments on ShapeNet dataset demonstrate that 3DAttriFlow outperforms the state-of-the-art shape reconstruction methods, and we also validate its generalization ability on shape completion task.

906
DeepShadow: Neural Shape from Shadow
2022-03-28
This paper presents DeepShadow, a one-shot method for recovering the depth map and surface normals from photometric stereo shadow maps. Previous works that try to recover the surface normals from photometric stereo images treat cast shadows as a disturbance. We show that the self and cast shadows not only do not disturb 3D reconstruction, but can be used alone, as a strong learning signal, to recover the depth map and surface normals. We demonstrate that 3D reconstruction from shadows can even outperform shape-from-shading in certain cases. To the best of our knowledge, our method is the first to reconstruct 3D shape-from-shadows using neural networks. The method does not require any pre-training or expensive labeled data, and is optimized during inference time.

908
RFNet-4D: Joint Object Reconstruction and Flow Estimation from 4D Point Clouds
2022-03-30
Object reconstruction from 3D point clouds has achieved impressive progress in the computer vision and computer graphics research field. However, reconstruction from time-varying point clouds (a.k.a. 4D point clouds) is generally overlooked. In this paper, we propose a new network architecture, namely RFNet-4D, that jointly reconstruct objects and their motion flows from 4D point clouds. The key insight is that simultaneously performing both tasks via learning spatial and temporal features from a sequence of point clouds can leverage individual tasks, leading to improved overall performance. To prove this ability, we design a temporal vector field learning module using unsupervised learning approach for flow estimation, leveraged by supervised learning of spatial structures for object reconstruction. Extensive experiments and analyses on benchmark dataset validated the effectiveness and efficiency of our method. As shown in experimental results, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on both flow estimation and object reconstruction while performing much faster than existing methods in both training and inference. Our code and data are available at https://github.com/hkust-vgd/RFNet-4D

912
BNV-Fusion: Dense 3D Reconstruction using Bi-level Neural Volume Fusion
2022-04-03
Dense 3D reconstruction from a stream of depth images is the key to many mixed reality and robotic applications. Although methods based on Truncated Signed Distance Function (TSDF) Fusion have advanced the field over the years, the TSDF volume representation is confronted with striking a balance between the robustness to noisy measurements and maintaining the level of detail. We present Bi-level Neural Volume Fusion (BNV-Fusion), which leverages recent advances in neural implicit representations and neural rendering for dense 3D reconstruction. In order to incrementally integrate new depth maps into a global neural implicit representation, we propose a novel bi-level fusion strategy that considers both efficiency and reconstruction quality by design. We evaluate the proposed method on multiple datasets quantitatively and qualitatively, demonstrating a significant improvement over existing methods.

923
Photometric single-view dense 3D reconstruction in endoscopy
2022-04-19
Visual SLAM inside the human body will open the way to computer-assisted navigation in endoscopy. However, due to space limitations, medical endoscopes only provide monocular images, leading to systems lacking true scale. In this paper, we exploit the controlled lighting in colonoscopy to achieve the first in-vivo 3D reconstruction of the human colon using photometric stereo on a calibrated monocular endoscope. Our method works in a real medical environment, providing both a suitable in-place calibration procedure and a depth estimation technique adapted to the colon's tubular geometry. We validate our method on simulated colonoscopies, obtaining a mean error of 7% on depth estimation, which is below 3 mm on average. Our qualitative results on the EndoMapper dataset show that the method is able to correctly estimate the colon shape in real human colonoscopies, paving the ground for true-scale monocular SLAM in endoscopy.

926
EMOCA: Emotion Driven Monocular Face Capture and Animation
2022-04-24
As 3D facial avatars become more widely used for communication, it is critical that they faithfully convey emotion. Unfortunately, the best recent methods that regress parametric 3D face models from monocular images are unable to capture the full spectrum of facial expression, such as subtle or extreme emotions. We find the standard reconstruction metrics used for training (landmark reprojection error, photometric error, and face recognition loss) are insufficient to capture high-fidelity expressions. The result is facial geometries that do not match the emotional content of the input image. We address this with EMOCA (EMOtion Capture and Animation), by introducing a novel deep perceptual emotion consistency loss during training, which helps ensure that the reconstructed 3D expression matches the expression depicted in the input image. While EMOCA achieves 3D reconstruction errors that are on par with the current best methods, it significantly outperforms them in terms of the quality of the reconstructed expression and the perceived emotional content. We also directly regress levels of valence and arousal and classify basic expressions from the estimated 3D face parameters. On the task of in-the-wild emotion recognition, our purely geometric approach is on par with the best image-based methods, highlighting the value of 3D geometry in analyzing human behavior. The model and code are publicly available at https://emoca.is.tue.mpg.de.

928
3D Magic Mirror: Clothing Reconstruction from a Single Image via a Causal Perspective
2022-04-27
This research aims to study a self-supervised 3D clothing reconstruction method, which recovers the geometry shape and texture of human clothing from a single image. Compared with existing methods, we observe that three primary challenges remain: (1) 3D ground-truth meshes of clothing are usually inaccessible due to annotation difficulties and time costs; (2) Conventional template-based methods are limited to modeling non-rigid objects, e.g., handbags and dresses, which are common in fashion images; (3) The inherent ambiguity compromises the model training, such as the dilemma between a large shape with a remote camera or a small shape with a close camera. In an attempt to address the above limitations, we propose a causality-aware self-supervised learning method to adaptively reconstruct 3D non-rigid objects from 2D images without 3D annotations. In particular, to solve the inherent ambiguity among four implicit variables, i.e., camera position, shape, texture, and illumination, we introduce an explainable structural causal map (SCM) to build our model. The proposed model structure follows the spirit of the causal map, which explicitly considers the prior template in the camera estimation and shape prediction. When optimization, the causality intervention tool, i.e., two expectation-maximization loops, is deeply embedded in our algorithm to (1) disentangle four encoders and (2) facilitate the prior template. Extensive experiments on two 2D fashion benchmarks (ATR and Market-HQ) show that the proposed method could yield high-fidelity 3D reconstruction. Furthermore, we also verify the scalability of the proposed method on a fine-grained bird dataset, i.e., CUB. The code is available at https://github.com/layumi/ 3D-Magic-Mirror .

929
Power Bundle Adjustment for Large-Scale 3D Reconstruction
2022-04-27
We introduce Power Bundle Adjustment as an expansion type algorithm for solving large-scale bundle adjustment problems. It is based on the power series expansion of the inverse Schur complement and constitutes a new family of solvers that we call inverse expansion methods. We theoretically justify the use of power series and we prove the convergence of our approach. Using the real-world BAL dataset we show that the proposed solver challenges the state-of-the-art iterative methods and significantly accelerates the solution of the normal equation, even for reaching a very high accuracy. This easy-to-implement solver can also complement a recently presented distributed bundle adjustment framework. We demonstrate that employing the proposed Power Bundle Adjustment as a sub-problem solver significantly improves speed and accuracy of the distributed optimization.

931
GenDR: A Generalized Differentiable Renderer
2022-04-29
In this work, we present and study a generalized family of differentiable renderers. We discuss from scratch which components are necessary for differentiable rendering and formalize the requirements for each component. We instantiate our general differentiable renderer, which generalizes existing differentiable renderers like SoftRas and DIB-R, with an array of different smoothing distributions to cover a large spectrum of reasonable settings. We evaluate an array of differentiable renderer instantiations on the popular ShapeNet 3D reconstruction benchmark and analyze the implications of our results. Surprisingly, the simple uniform distribution yields the best overall results when averaged over 13 classes; in general, however, the optimal choice of distribution heavily depends on the task.

934
Neural 3D Scene Reconstruction with the Manhattan-world Assumption
2022-05-05
This paper addresses the challenge of reconstructing 3D indoor scenes from multi-view images. Many previous works have shown impressive reconstruction results on textured objects, but they still have difficulty in handling low-textured planar regions, which are common in indoor scenes. An approach to solving this issue is to incorporate planer constraints into the depth map estimation in multi-view stereo-based methods, but the per-view plane estimation and depth optimization lack both efficiency and multi-view consistency. In this work, we show that the planar constraints can be conveniently integrated into the recent implicit neural representation-based reconstruction methods. Specifically, we use an MLP network to represent the signed distance function as the scene geometry. Based on the Manhattan-world assumption, planar constraints are employed to regularize the geometry in floor and wall regions predicted by a 2D semantic segmentation network. To resolve the inaccurate segmentation, we encode the semantics of 3D points with another MLP and design a novel loss that jointly optimizes the scene geometry and semantics in 3D space. Experiments on ScanNet and 7-Scenes datasets show that the proposed method outperforms previous methods by a large margin on 3D reconstruction quality. The code is available at https://zju3dv.github.io/manhattan_sdf.

946
3D-C2FT: Coarse-to-fine Transformer for Multi-view 3D Reconstruction
2022-05-29
Recently, the transformer model has been successfully employed for the multi-view 3D reconstruction problem. However, challenges remain on designing an attention mechanism to explore the multiview features and exploit their relations for reinforcing the encoding-decoding modules. This paper proposes a new model, namely 3D coarse-to-fine transformer (3D-C2FT), by introducing a novel coarse-to-fine(C2F) attention mechanism for encoding multi-view features and rectifying defective 3D objects. C2F attention mechanism enables the model to learn multi-view information flow and synthesize 3D surface correction in a coarse to fine-grained manner. The proposed model is evaluated by ShapeNet and Multi-view Real-life datasets. Experimental results show that 3D-C2FT achieves notable results and outperforms several competing models on these datasets.

950
Learning Soft Estimator of Keypoint Scale and Orientation With Probabilistic Covariant Loss
2022-01-01
    Estimating keypoint scale and orientation is crucial to extracting invariant features under significant geometric changes. Recently, the estimators based on self-supervised learning have been designed to adapt to complex imaging conditions. Such learning-based estimators generally predict a single scalar for the keypoint scale or orientation, called hard estimators. However, hard estimators are difficult to handle the local patches containing structures of different objects or multiple edges. In this paper, a Soft Self-Supervised Estimator (S3Esti) is proposed to overcome this problem by learning to predict multiple scales and orientations. S3Esti involves three core factors. First, the estimator is constructed to predict the discrete distributions of scales and orientations. The elements with high confidence will be kept as the final scales and orientations. Second, a probabilistic covariant loss is proposed to improve the consistency of the scale and orientation distributions under different transformations. Third, an optimization algorithm is designed to minimize the loss function, whose convergence is proved in theory. When combined with different keypoint extraction models, S3Esti generally improves over 50% accuracy in image matching tasks under significant viewpoint changes. In the 3D reconstruction task, S3Esti decreases more than 10% reprojection error and improves the number of registered images.    

957
Shape, Light, and Material Decomposition from Images using Monte Carlo Rendering and Denoising
2022-06-07
Recent advances in differentiable rendering have enabled high-quality reconstruction of 3D scenes from multi-view images. Most methods rely on simple rendering algorithms: pre-filtered direct lighting or learned representations of irradiance. We show that a more realistic shading model, incorporating ray tracing and Monte Carlo integration, substantially improves decomposition into shape, materials & lighting. Unfortunately, Monte Carlo integration provides estimates with significant noise, even at large sample counts, which makes gradient-based inverse rendering very challenging. To address this, we incorporate multiple importance sampling and denoising in a novel inverse rendering pipeline. This substantially improves convergence and enables gradient-based optimization at low sample counts. We present an efficient method to jointly reconstruct geometry (explicit triangle meshes), materials, and lighting, which substantially improves material and light separation compared to previous work. We argue that denoising can become an integral part of high quality inverse rendering pipelines.

959
Fast Organization of Objects' Spatial Positions in Manipulator Space from Single RGB-D Camera
2021-12-05
For the grasp task in physical environment, it is important for the manipulator to know the objects’ spatial positions with as few sensors as possible in real time. This work proposed an effective framework to organize the objects’ spatial positions in the manipulator 3D workspace with a single RGB-D camera robustly and fast. It mainly contains two steps: (1) a 3D reconstruction strategy for objects’ contours obtained in environment; (2) a distance-restricted outlier point elimination strategy to reduce the reconstruction errors caused by sensor noise. The first step ensures fast object extraction and 3D reconstruction from scene image, and the second step contributes to more accurate reconstructions by eliminating outlier points from initial result obtained by the first step. We validated the proposed method in a physical system containing a Kinect 2.0 RGB-D camera and a Mico2 robot. Experiments show that the proposed method can run in quasi real time on a common PC and it outperforms the traditional 3D reconstruction methods.

969
SVoRT: Iterative Transformer for Slice-to-Volume Registration in Fetal Brain MRI
2022-06-22
Volumetric reconstruction of fetal brains from multiple stacks of MR slices, acquired in the presence of almost unpredictable and often severe subject motion, is a challenging task that is highly sensitive to the initialization of slice-to-volume transformations. We propose a novel slice-to-volume registration method using Transformers trained on synthetically transformed data, which model multiple stacks of MR slices as a sequence. With the attention mechanism, our model automatically detects the relevance between slices and predicts the transformation of one slice using information from other slices. We also estimate the underlying 3D volume to assist slice-to-volume registration and update the volume and transformations alternately to improve accuracy. Results on synthetic data show that our method achieves lower registration error and better reconstruction quality compared with existing state-of-the-art methods. Experiments with real-world MRI data are also performed to demonstrate the ability of the proposed model to improve the quality of 3D reconstruction under severe fetal motion.

971
HM3D-ABO: A Photo-realistic Dataset for Object-centric Multi-view 3D Reconstruction
2022-06-24
Reconstructing 3D objects is an important computer vision task that has wide application in AR/VR. Deep learning algorithm developed for this task usually relies on an unrealistic synthetic dataset, such as ShapeNet and Things3D. On the other hand, existing real-captured object-centric datasets usually do not have enough annotation to enable supervised training or reliable evaluation. In this technical report, we present a photo-realistic object-centric dataset HM3D-ABO. It is constructed by composing realistic indoor scene and realistic object. For each configuration, we provide multi-view RGB observations, a water-tight mesh model for the object, ground truth depth map and object mask. The proposed dataset could also be useful for tasks such as camera pose estimation and novel-view synthesis. The dataset generation code is released at https://github.com/zhenpeiyang/HM3D-ABO.

975
Neural Rendering for Stereo 3D Reconstruction of Deformable Tissues in Robotic Surgery
2022-06-30
Reconstruction of the soft tissues in robotic surgery from endoscopic stereo videos is important for many applications such as intra-operative navigation and image-guided robotic surgery automation. Previous works on this task mainly rely on SLAM-based approaches, which struggle to handle complex surgical scenes. Inspired by recent progress in neural rendering, we present a novel framework for deformable tissue reconstruction from binocular captures in robotic surgery under the single-viewpoint setting. Our framework adopts dynamic neural radiance fields to represent deformable surgical scenes in MLPs and optimize shapes and deformations in a learning-based manner. In addition to non-rigid deformations, tool occlusion and poor 3D clues from a single viewpoint are also particular challenges in soft tissue reconstruction. To overcome these difficulties, we present a series of strategies of tool mask-guided ray casting, stereo depth-cueing ray marching and stereo depth-supervised optimization. With experiments on DaVinci robotic surgery videos, our method significantly outperforms the current state-of-the-art reconstruction method for handling various complex non-rigid deformations. To our best knowledge, this is the first work leveraging neural rendering for surgical scene 3D reconstruction with remarkable potential demonstrated. Code is available at: https://github.com/med-air/EndoNeRF.

976
What Makes for Automatic Reconstruction of Pulmonary Segments
2022-07-07
3D reconstruction of pulmonary segments plays an important role in surgical treatment planning of lung cancer, which facilitates preservation of pulmonary function and helps ensure low recurrence rates. However, automatic reconstruction of pulmonary segments remains unexplored in the era of deep learning. In this paper, we investigate what makes for automatic reconstruction of pulmonary segments. First and foremost, we formulate, clinically and geometrically, the anatomical definitions of pulmonary segments, and propose evaluation metrics adhering to these definitions. Second, we propose ImPulSe (Implicit Pulmonary Segment), a deep implicit surface model designed for pulmonary segment reconstruction. The automatic reconstruction of pulmonary segments by ImPulSe is accurate in metrics and visually appealing. Compared with canonical segmentation methods, ImPulSe outputs continuous predictions of arbitrary resolutions with higher training efficiency and fewer parameters. Lastly, we experiment with different network inputs to analyze what matters in the task of pulmonary segment reconstruction. Our code is available at https://github.com/M3DV/ImPulSe.

982
VoloGAN: Adversarial Domain Adaptation for Synthetic Depth Data
2022-07-19
We present VoloGAN, an adversarial domain adaptation network that translates synthetic RGB-D images of a high-quality 3D model of a person, into RGB-D images that could be generated with a consumer depth sensor. This system is especially useful to generate high amount training data for single-view 3D reconstruction algorithms replicating the real-world capture conditions, being able to imitate the style of different sensor types, for the same high-end 3D model database. The network uses a CycleGAN framework with a U-Net architecture for the generator and a discriminator inspired by SIV-GAN. We use different optimizers and learning rate schedules to train the generator and the discriminator. We further construct a loss function that considers image channels individually and, among other metrics, evaluates the structural similarity. We demonstrate that CycleGANs can be used to apply adversarial domain adaptation of synthetic 3D data to train a volumetric video generator model having only few training samples.

983
Object-Compositional Neural Implicit Surfaces
2022-07-20
The neural implicit representation has shown its effectiveness in novel view synthesis and high-quality 3D reconstruction from multi-view images. However, most approaches focus on holistic scene representation yet ignore individual objects inside it, thus limiting potential downstream applications. In order to learn object-compositional representation, a few works incorporate the 2D semantic map as a cue in training to grasp the difference between objects. But they neglect the strong connections between object geometry and instance semantic information, which leads to inaccurate modeling of individual instance. This paper proposes a novel framework, ObjectSDF, to build an object-compositional neural implicit representation with high fidelity in 3D reconstruction and object representation. Observing the ambiguity of conventional volume rendering pipelines, we model the scene by combining the Signed Distance Functions (SDF) of individual object to exert explicit surface constraint. The key in distinguishing different instances is to revisit the strong association between an individual object's SDF and semantic label. Particularly, we convert the semantic information to a function of object SDF and develop a unified and compact representation for scene and objects. Experimental results show the superiority of ObjectSDF framework in representing both the holistic object-compositional scene and the individual instances. Code can be found at https://qianyiwu.github.io/objectsdf/

984
Perspective Phase Angle Model for Polarimetric 3D Reconstruction
2022-07-20
Current polarimetric 3D reconstruction methods, including those in the well-established shape from polarization literature, are all developed under the orthographic projection assumption. In the case of a large field of view, however, this assumption does not hold and may result in significant reconstruction errors in methods that make this assumption. To address this problem, we present the perspective phase angle (PPA) model that is applicable to perspective cameras. Compared with the orthographic model, the proposed PPA model accurately describes the relationship between polarization phase angle and surface normal under perspective projection. In addition, the PPA model makes it possible to estimate surface normals from only one single-view phase angle map and does not suffer from the so-called $\pi$-ambiguity problem. Experiments on real data show that the PPA model is more accurate for surface normal estimation with a perspective camera than the orthographic model.

987
Multi-Event-Camera Depth Estimation and Outlier Rejection by Refocused Events Fusion
2022-07-21
Event cameras are bio-inspired sensors that offer advantages over traditional cameras. They operate asynchronously, sampling the scene at microsecond resolution and producing a stream of brightness changes. This unconventional output has sparked novel computer vision methods to unlock the camera's potential. Here, the problem of event-based stereo 3D reconstruction for SLAM is considered. Most event-based stereo methods attempt to exploit the high temporal resolution of the camera and the simultaneity of events across cameras to establish matches and estimate depth. By contrast, this work investigates how to estimate depth without explicit data association by fusing Disparity Space Images (DSIs) originated in efficient monocular methods. Fusion theory is developed and applied to design multi-camera 3D reconstruction algorithms that produce state-of-the-art results, as confirmed by comparisons with four baseline methods and tests on a variety of available datasets.

995
Efficient Pix2Vox++ for 3D Cardiac Reconstruction from 2D echo views
2022-07-27
Accurate geometric quantification of the human heart is a key step in the diagnosis of numerous cardiac diseases, and in the management of cardiac patients. Ultrasound imaging is the primary modality for cardiac imaging, however acquisition requires high operator skill, and its interpretation and analysis is difficult due to artifacts. Reconstructing cardiac anatomy in 3D can enable discovery of new biomarkers and make imaging less dependent on operator expertise, however most ultrasound systems only have 2D imaging capabilities. We propose both a simple alteration to the Pix2Vox++ networks for a sizeable reduction in memory usage and computational complexity, and a pipeline to perform reconstruction of 3D anatomy from 2D standard cardiac views, effectively enabling 3D anatomical reconstruction from limited 2D data. We evaluate our pipeline using synthetically generated data achieving accurate 3D whole-heart reconstructions (peak intersection over union score > 0.88) from just two standard anatomical 2D views of the heart. We also show preliminary results using real echo images.

997
Cross-Attention of Disentangled Modalities for 3D Human Mesh Recovery with Transformers
2022-07-27
Transformer encoder architectures have recently achieved state-of-the-art results on monocular 3D human mesh reconstruction, but they require a substantial number of parameters and expensive computations. Due to the large memory overhead and slow inference speed, it is difficult to deploy such models for practical use. In this paper, we propose a novel transformer encoder-decoder architecture for 3D human mesh reconstruction from a single image, called FastMETRO. We identify the performance bottleneck in the encoder-based transformers is caused by the token design which introduces high complexity interactions among input tokens. We disentangle the interactions via an encoder-decoder architecture, which allows our model to demand much fewer parameters and shorter inference time. In addition, we impose the prior knowledge of human body's morphological relationship via attention masking and mesh upsampling operations, which leads to faster convergence with higher accuracy. Our FastMETRO improves the Pareto-front of accuracy and efficiency, and clearly outperforms image-based methods on Human3.6M and 3DPW. Furthermore, we validate its generalizability on FreiHAND.

1001
Learning Object Manipulation Skills from Video via Approximate Differentiable Physics
2022-08-03
We aim to teach robots to perform simple object manipulation tasks by watching a single video demonstration. Towards this goal, we propose an optimization approach that outputs a coarse and temporally evolving 3D scene to mimic the action demonstrated in the input video. Similar to previous work, a differentiable renderer ensures perceptual fidelity between the 3D scene and the 2D video. Our key novelty lies in the inclusion of a differentiable approach to solve a set of Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs) that allows us to approximately model laws of physics such as gravity, friction, and hand-object or object-object interactions. This not only enables us to dramatically improve the quality of estimated hand and object states, but also produces physically admissible trajectories that can be directly translated to a robot without the need for costly reinforcement learning. We evaluate our approach on a 3D reconstruction task that consists of 54 video demonstrations sourced from 9 actions such as pull something from right to left or put something in front of something. Our approach improves over previous state-of-the-art by almost 30%, demonstrating superior quality on especially challenging actions involving physical interactions of two objects such as put something onto something. Finally, we showcase the learned skills on a Franka Emika Panda robot.

1002
MVSFormer: Multi-View Stereo by Learning Robust Image Features and Temperature-based Depth
2022-08-04
Feature representation learning is the key recipe for learning-based Multi-View Stereo (MVS). As the common feature extractor of learning-based MVS, vanilla Feature Pyramid Networks (FPNs) suffer from discouraged feature representations for reflection and texture-less areas, which limits the generalization of MVS. Even FPNs worked with pre-trained Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) fail to tackle these issues. On the other hand, Vision Transformers (ViTs) have achieved prominent success in many 2D vision tasks. Thus we ask whether ViTs can facilitate feature learning in MVS? In this paper, we propose a pre-trained ViT enhanced MVS network called MVSFormer, which can learn more reliable feature representations benefited by informative priors from ViT. The finetuned MVSFormer with hierarchical ViTs of efficient attention mechanisms can achieve prominent improvement based on FPNs. Besides, the alternative MVSFormer with frozen ViT weights is further proposed. This largely alleviates the training cost with competitive performance strengthened by the attention map from the self-distillation pre-training. MVSFormer can be generalized to various input resolutions with efficient multi-scale training strengthened by gradient accumulation. Moreover, we discuss the merits and drawbacks of classification and regression-based MVS methods, and further propose to unify them with a temperature-based strategy. MVSFormer achieves state-of-the-art performance on the DTU dataset. Particularly, MVSFormer ranks as Top-1 on both intermediate and advanced sets of the highly competitive Tanks-and-Temples leaderboard.

1004
PlaneFormers: From Sparse View Planes to 3D Reconstruction
2022-08-08
We present an approach for the planar surface reconstruction of a scene from images with limited overlap. This reconstruction task is challenging since it requires jointly reasoning about single image 3D reconstruction, correspondence between images, and the relative camera pose between images. Past work has proposed optimization-based approaches. We introduce a simpler approach, the PlaneFormer, that uses a transformer applied to 3D-aware plane tokens to perform 3D reasoning. Our experiments show that our approach is substantially more effective than prior work, and that several 3D-specific design decisions are crucial for its success.

1005
Visual-Inertial Multi-Instance Dynamic SLAM with Object-level Relocalisation
2022-08-08
In this paper, we present a tightly-coupled visual-inertial object-level multi-instance dynamic SLAM system. Even in extremely dynamic scenes, it can robustly optimise for the camera pose, velocity, IMU biases and build a dense 3D reconstruction object-level map of the environment. Our system can robustly track and reconstruct the geometries of arbitrary objects, their semantics and motion by incrementally fusing associated colour, depth, semantic, and foreground object probabilities into each object model thanks to its robust sensor and object tracking. In addition, when an object is lost or moved outside the camera field of view, our system can reliably recover its pose upon re-observation. We demonstrate the robustness and accuracy of our method by quantitatively and qualitatively testing it in real-world data sequences.

1008
SketchSampler: Sketch-based 3D Reconstruction via View-dependent Depth Sampling
2022-08-14
Reconstructing a 3D shape based on a single sketch image is challenging due to the large domain gap between a sparse, irregular sketch and a regular, dense 3D shape. Existing works try to employ the global feature extracted from sketch to directly predict the 3D coordinates, but they usually suffer from losing fine details that are not faithful to the input sketch. Through analyzing the 3D-to-2D projection process, we notice that the density map that characterizes the distribution of 2D point clouds (i.e., the probability of points projected at each location of the projection plane) can be used as a proxy to facilitate the reconstruction process. To this end, we first translate a sketch via an image translation network to a more informative 2D representation that can be used to generate a density map. Next, a 3D point cloud is reconstructed via a two-stage probabilistic sampling process: first recovering the 2D points (i.e., the x and y coordinates) by sampling the density map; and then predicting the depth (i.e., the z coordinate) by sampling the depth values at the ray determined by each 2D point. Extensive experiments are conducted, and both quantitative and qualitative results show that our proposed approach significantly outperforms other baseline methods.

1009
Improving Computed Tomography (CT) Reconstruction via 3D Shape Induction
2022-08-23
Chest computed tomography (CT) imaging adds valuable insight in the diagnosis and management of pulmonary infectious diseases, like tuberculosis (TB). However, due to the cost and resource limitations, only X-ray images may be available for initial diagnosis or follow up comparison imaging during treatment. Due to their projective nature, X-rays images may be more difficult to interpret by clinicians. The lack of publicly available paired X-ray and CT image datasets makes it challenging to train a 3D reconstruction model. In addition, Chest X-ray radiology may rely on different device modalities with varying image quality and there may be variation in underlying population disease spectrum that creates diversity in inputs. We propose shape induction, that is, learning the shape of 3D CT from X-ray without CT supervision, as a novel technique to incorporate realistic X-ray distributions during training of a reconstruction model. Our experiments demonstrate that this process improves both the perceptual quality of generated CT and the accuracy of down-stream classification of pulmonary infectious diseases.

1010
PeRFception: Perception using Radiance Fields
2022-08-24
The recent progress in implicit 3D representation, i.e., Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs), has made accurate and photorealistic 3D reconstruction possible in a differentiable manner. This new representation can effectively convey the information of hundreds of high-resolution images in one compact format and allows photorealistic synthesis of novel views. In this work, using the variant of NeRF called Plenoxels, we create the first large-scale implicit representation datasets for perception tasks, called the PeRFception, which consists of two parts that incorporate both object-centric and scene-centric scans for classification and segmentation. It shows a significant memory compression rate (96.4\%) from the original dataset, while containing both 2D and 3D information in a unified form. We construct the classification and segmentation models that directly take as input this implicit format and also propose a novel augmentation technique to avoid overfitting on backgrounds of images. The code and data are publicly available in https://postech-cvlab.github.io/PeRFception .

1018
Articulated 3D Human-Object Interactions from RGB Videos: An Empirical Analysis of Approaches and Challenges
2022-09-12
Human-object interactions with articulated objects are common in everyday life. Despite much progress in single-view 3D reconstruction, it is still challenging to infer an articulated 3D object model from an RGB video showing a person manipulating the object. We canonicalize the task of articulated 3D human-object interaction reconstruction from RGB video, and carry out a systematic benchmark of five families of methods for this task: 3D plane estimation, 3D cuboid estimation, CAD model fitting, implicit field fitting, and free-form mesh fitting. Our experiments show that all methods struggle to obtain high accuracy results even when provided ground truth information about the observed objects. We identify key factors which make the task challenging and suggest directions for future work on this challenging 3D computer vision task. Short video summary at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tAlKBojZwc

1021
DifferSketching: How Differently Do People Sketch 3D Objects?
2022-09-19
Multiple sketch datasets have been proposed to understand how people draw 3D objects. However, such datasets are often of small scale and cover a small set of objects or categories. In addition, these datasets contain freehand sketches mostly from expert users, making it difficult to compare the drawings by expert and novice users, while such comparisons are critical in informing more effective sketch-based interfaces for either user groups. These observations motivate us to analyze how differently people with and without adequate drawing skills sketch 3D objects. We invited 70 novice users and 38 expert users to sketch 136 3D objects, which were presented as 362 images rendered from multiple views. This leads to a new dataset of 3,620 freehand multi-view sketches, which are registered with their corresponding 3D objects under certain views. Our dataset is an order of magnitude larger than the existing datasets. We analyze the collected data at three levels, i.e., sketch-level, stroke-level, and pixel-level, under both spatial and temporal characteristics, and within and across groups of creators. We found that the drawings by professionals and novices show significant differences at stroke-level, both intrinsically and extrinsically. We demonstrate the usefulness of our dataset in two applications: (i) freehand-style sketch synthesis, and (ii) posing it as a potential benchmark for sketch-based 3D reconstruction. Our dataset and code are available at https://chufengxiao.github.io/DifferSketching/.

1030
Sphere-Guided Training of Neural Implicit Surfaces
2022-09-30
In recent years, neural distance functions trained via volumetric ray marching have been widely adopted for multi-view 3D reconstruction. These methods, however, apply the ray marching procedure for the entire scene volume, leading to reduced sampling efficiency and, as a result, lower reconstruction quality in the areas of high-frequency details. In this work, we address this problem via joint training of the implicit function and our new coarse sphere-based surface reconstruction. We use the coarse representation to efficiently exclude the empty volume of the scene from the volumetric ray marching procedure without additional forward passes of the neural surface network, which leads to an increased fidelity of the reconstructions compared to the base systems. We evaluate our approach by incorporating it into the training procedures of several implicit surface modeling methods and observe uniform improvements across both synthetic and real-world datasets. Our codebase can be accessed via the project page: https://andreeadogaru.github.io/SphereGuided

1031
Semi-Supervised Single-View 3D Reconstruction via Prototype Shape Priors
2022-09-30
The performance of existing single-view 3D reconstruction methods heavily relies on large-scale 3D annotations. However, such annotations are tedious and expensive to collect. Semi-supervised learning serves as an alternative way to mitigate the need for manual labels, but remains unexplored in 3D reconstruction. Inspired by the recent success of semi-supervised image classification tasks, we propose SSP3D, a semi-supervised framework for 3D reconstruction. In particular, we introduce an attention-guided prototype shape prior module for guiding realistic object reconstruction. We further introduce a discriminator-guided module to incentivize better shape generation, as well as a regularizer to tolerate noisy training samples. On the ShapeNet benchmark, the proposed approach outperforms previous supervised methods by clear margins under various labeling ratios, (i.e., 1%, 5% , 10% and 20%). Moreover, our approach also performs well when transferring to real-world Pix3D datasets under labeling ratios of 10%. We also demonstrate our method could transfer to novel categories with few novel supervised data. Experiments on the popular ShapeNet dataset show that our method outperforms the zero-shot baseline by over 12% and we also perform rigorous ablations and analysis to validate our approach.

1034
OCD: Learning to Overfit with Conditional Diffusion Models
2022-10-02
We present a dynamic model in which the weights are conditioned on an input sample x and are learned to match those that would be obtained by finetuning a base model on x and its label y. This mapping between an input sample and network weights is approximated by a denoising diffusion model. The diffusion model we employ focuses on modifying a single layer of the base model and is conditioned on the input, activations, and output of this layer. Since the diffusion model is stochastic in nature, multiple initializations generate different networks, forming an ensemble, which leads to further improvements. Our experiments demonstrate the wide applicability of the method for image classification, 3D reconstruction, tabular data, speech separation, and natural language processing. Our code is available at https://github.com/ShaharLutatiPersonal/OCD

1035
MBW: Multi-view Bootstrapping in the Wild
2022-10-04
Labeling articulated objects in unconstrained settings have a wide variety of applications including entertainment, neuroscience, psychology, ethology, and many fields of medicine. Large offline labeled datasets do not exist for all but the most common articulated object categories (e.g., humans). Hand labeling these landmarks within a video sequence is a laborious task. Learned landmark detectors can help, but can be error-prone when trained from only a few examples. Multi-camera systems that train fine-grained detectors have shown significant promise in detecting such errors, allowing for self-supervised solutions that only need a small percentage of the video sequence to be hand-labeled. The approach, however, is based on calibrated cameras and rigid geometry, making it expensive, difficult to manage, and impractical in real-world scenarios. In this paper, we address these bottlenecks by combining a non-rigid 3D neural prior with deep flow to obtain high-fidelity landmark estimates from videos with only two or three uncalibrated, handheld cameras. With just a few annotations (representing 1-2% of the frames), we are able to produce 2D results comparable to state-of-the-art fully supervised methods, along with 3D reconstructions that are impossible with other existing approaches. Our Multi-view Bootstrapping in the Wild (MBW) approach demonstrates impressive results on standard human datasets, as well as tigers, cheetahs, fish, colobus monkeys, chimpanzees, and flamingos from videos captured casually in a zoo. We release the codebase for MBW as well as this challenging zoo dataset consisting image frames of tail-end distribution categories with their corresponding 2D, 3D labels generated from minimal human intervention.

1037
SHINE-Mapping: Large-Scale 3D Mapping Using Sparse Hierarchical Implicit Neural Representations
2022-10-05
Accurate mapping of large-scale environments is an essential building block of most outdoor autonomous systems. Challenges of traditional mapping methods include the balance between memory consumption and mapping accuracy. This paper addresses the problem of achieving large-scale 3D reconstruction using implicit representations built from 3D LiDAR measurements. We learn and store implicit features through an octree-based, hierarchical structure, which is sparse and extensible. The implicit features can be turned into signed distance values through a shallow neural network. We leverage binary cross entropy loss to optimize the local features with the 3D measurements as supervision. Based on our implicit representation, we design an incremental mapping system with regularization to tackle the issue of forgetting in continual learning. Our experiments show that our 3D reconstructions are more accurate, complete, and memory-efficient than current state-of-the-art 3D mapping methods.

1039
3D Reconstruction of Sculptures from Single Images via Unsupervised Domain Adaptation on Implicit Models
2022-10-09
Acquiring the virtual equivalent of exhibits, such as sculptures, in virtual reality (VR) museums, can be labour-intensive and sometimes infeasible. Deep learning based 3D reconstruction approaches allow us to recover 3D shapes from 2D observations, among which single-view-based approaches can reduce the need for human intervention and specialised equipment in acquiring 3D sculptures for VR museums. However, there exist two challenges when attempting to use the well-researched human reconstruction methods: limited data availability and domain shift. Considering sculptures are usually related to humans, we propose our unsupervised 3D domain adaptation method for adapting a single-view 3D implicit reconstruction model from the source (real-world humans) to the target (sculptures) domain. We have compared the generated shapes with other methods and conducted ablation studies as well as a user study to demonstrate the effectiveness of our adaptation method. We also deploy our results in a VR application.

1042
3D GAN Inversion with Pose Optimization
2022-10-13
With the recent advances in NeRF-based 3D aware GANs quality, projecting an image into the latent space of these 3D-aware GANs has a natural advantage over 2D GAN inversion: not only does it allow multi-view consistent editing of the projected image, but it also enables 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis when given only a single image. However, the explicit viewpoint control acts as a main hindrance in the 3D GAN inversion process, as both camera pose and latent code have to be optimized simultaneously to reconstruct the given image. Most works that explore the latent space of the 3D-aware GANs rely on ground-truth camera viewpoint or deformable 3D model, thus limiting their applicability. In this work, we introduce a generalizable 3D GAN inversion method that infers camera viewpoint and latent code simultaneously to enable multi-view consistent semantic image editing. The key to our approach is to leverage pre-trained estimators for better initialization and utilize the pixel-wise depth calculated from NeRF parameters to better reconstruct the given image. We conduct extensive experiments on image reconstruction and editing both quantitatively and qualitatively, and further compare our results with 2D GAN-based editing to demonstrate the advantages of utilizing the latent space of 3D GANs. Additional results and visualizations are available at https://3dgan-inversion.github.io .

1046
Bidirectional Semi-supervised Dual-branch CNN for Robust 3D Reconstruction of Stereo Endoscopic Images via Adaptive Cross and Parallel Supervisions
2022-10-15
Semi-supervised learning via teacher-student network can train a model effectively on a few labeled samples. It enables a student model to distill knowledge from the teacher's predictions of extra unlabeled data. However, such knowledge flow is typically unidirectional, having the performance vulnerable to the quality of teacher model. In this paper, we seek to robust 3D reconstruction of stereo endoscopic images by proposing a novel fashion of bidirectional learning between two learners, each of which can play both roles of teacher and student concurrently. Specifically, we introduce two self-supervisions, i.e., Adaptive Cross Supervision (ACS) and Adaptive Parallel Supervision (APS), to learn a dual-branch convolutional neural network. The two branches predict two different disparity probability distributions for the same position, and output their expectations as disparity values. The learned knowledge flows across branches along two directions: a cross direction (disparity guides distribution in ACS) and a parallel direction (disparity guides disparity in APS). Moreover, each branch also learns confidences to dynamically refine its provided supervisions. In ACS, the predicted disparity is softened into a unimodal distribution, and the lower the confidence, the smoother the distribution. In APS, the incorrect predictions are suppressed by lowering the weights of those with low confidence. With the adaptive bidirectional learning, the two branches enjoy well-tuned supervisions, and eventually converge on a consistent and more accurate disparity estimation. The extensive and comprehensive experimental results on four public datasets demonstrate our superior performance over other state-of-the-arts with a relative decrease of averaged disparity error by at least 9.76%.

1047
Scrape, Cut, Paste and Learn: Automated Dataset Generation Applied to Parcel Logistics
2022-10-18
State-of-the-art approaches in computer vision heavily rely on sufficiently large training datasets. For real-world applications, obtaining such a dataset is usually a tedious task. In this paper, we present a fully automated pipeline to generate a synthetic dataset for instance segmentation in four steps. In contrast to existing work, our pipeline covers every step from data acquisition to the final dataset. We first scrape images for the objects of interest from popular image search engines and since we rely only on text-based queries the resulting data comprises a wide variety of images. Hence, image selection is necessary as a second step. This approach of image scraping and selection relaxes the need for a real-world domain-specific dataset that must be either publicly available or created for this purpose. We employ an object-agnostic background removal model and compare three different methods for image selection: Object-agnostic pre-processing, manual image selection and CNN-based image selection. In the third step, we generate random arrangements of the object of interest and distractors on arbitrary backgrounds. Finally, the composition of the images is done by pasting the objects using four different blending methods. We present a case study for our dataset generation approach by considering parcel segmentation. For the evaluation we created a dataset of parcel photos that were annotated automatically. We find that (1) our dataset generation pipeline allows a successful transfer to real test images (Mask AP 86.2), (2) a very accurate image selection process - in contrast to human intuition - is not crucial and a broader category definition can help to bridge the domain gap, (3) the usage of blending methods is beneficial compared to simple copy-and-paste. We made our full code for scraping, image composition and training publicly available at https://a-nau.github.io/parcel2d.

1048
Multi-View Guided Multi-View Stereo
2022-10-20
This paper introduces a novel deep framework for dense 3D reconstruction from multiple image frames, leveraging a sparse set of depth measurements gathered jointly with image acquisition. Given a deep multi-view stereo network, our framework uses sparse depth hints to guide the neural network by modulating the plane-sweep cost volume built during the forward step, enabling us to infer constantly much more accurate depth maps. Moreover, since multiple viewpoints can provide additional depth measurements, we propose a multi-view guidance strategy that increases the density of the sparse points used to guide the network, thus leading to even more accurate results. We evaluate our Multi-View Guided framework within a variety of state-of-the-art deep multi-view stereo networks, demonstrating its effectiveness at improving the results achieved by each of them on BlendedMVG and DTU datasets.

1052
Deep-MDS Framework for Recovering the 3D Shape of 2D Landmarks from a Single Image
2022-10-27
In this paper, a low parameter deep learning framework utilizing the Non-metric Multi-Dimensional scaling (NMDS) method, is proposed to recover the 3D shape of 2D landmarks on a human face, in a single input image. Hence, NMDS approach is used for the first time to establish a mapping from a 2D landmark space to the corresponding 3D shape space. A deep neural network learns the pairwise dissimilarity among 2D landmarks, used by NMDS approach, whose objective is to learn the pairwise 3D Euclidean distance of the corresponding 2D landmarks on the input image. This scheme results in a symmetric dissimilarity matrix, with the rank larger than 2, leading the NMDS approach toward appropriately recovering the 3D shape of corresponding 2D landmarks. In the case of posed images and complex image formation processes like perspective projection which causes occlusion in the input image, we consider an autoencoder component in the proposed framework, as an occlusion removal part, which turns different input views of the human face into a profile view. The results of a performance evaluation using different synthetic and real-world human face datasets, including Besel Face Model (BFM), CelebA, CoMA - FLAME, and CASIA-3D, indicates the comparable performance of the proposed framework, despite its small number of training parameters, with the related state-of-the-art and powerful 3D reconstruction methods from the literature, in terms of efficiency and accuracy.

1054
Semantic-SuPer: A Semantic-aware Surgical Perception Framework for Endoscopic Tissue Identification, Reconstruction, and Tracking
2022-10-29
Accurate and robust tracking and reconstruction of the surgical scene is a critical enabling technology toward autonomous robotic surgery. Existing algorithms for 3D perception in surgery mainly rely on geometric information, while we propose to also leverage semantic information inferred from the endoscopic video using image segmentation algorithms. In this paper, we present a novel, comprehensive surgical perception framework, Semantic-SuPer, that integrates geometric and semantic information to facilitate data association, 3D reconstruction, and tracking of endoscopic scenes, benefiting downstream tasks like surgical navigation. The proposed framework is demonstrated on challenging endoscopic data with deforming tissue, showing its advantages over our baseline and several other state-of the-art approaches. Our code and dataset are available at https://github.com/ucsdarclab/Python-SuPer.

1059
Detecting Line Segments in Motion-blurred Images with Events
2022-11-14
Making line segment detectors more reliable under motion blurs is one of the most important challenges for practical applications, such as visual SLAM and 3D reconstruction. Existing line segment detection methods face severe performance degradation for accurately detecting and locating line segments when motion blur occurs. While event data shows strong complementary characteristics to images for minimal blur and edge awareness at high-temporal resolution, potentially beneficial for reliable line segment recognition. To robustly detect line segments over motion blurs, we propose to leverage the complementary information of images and events. To achieve this, we first design a general frame-event feature fusion network to extract and fuse the detailed image textures and low-latency event edges, which consists of a channel-attention-based shallow fusion module and a self-attention-based dual hourglass module. We then utilize two state-of-the-art wireframe parsing networks to detect line segments on the fused feature map. Besides, we contribute a synthetic and a realistic dataset for line segment detection, i.e., FE-Wireframe and FE-Blurframe, with pairwise motion-blurred images and events. Extensive experiments on both datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. When tested on the real dataset, our method achieves 63.3% mean structural average precision (msAP) with the model pre-trained on the FE-Wireframe and fine-tuned on the FE-Blurframe, improved by 32.6 and 11.3 points compared with models trained on synthetic only and real only, respectively. The codes, datasets, and trained models are released at: https://levenberg.github.io/FE-LSD

1063
Semantic keypoint extraction for scanned animals using multi-depth-camera systems
2022-11-16
Keypoint annotation in point clouds is an important task for 3D reconstruction, object tracking and alignment, in particular in deformable or moving scenes. In the context of agriculture robotics, it is a critical task for livestock automation to work toward condition assessment or behaviour recognition. In this work, we propose a novel approach for semantic keypoint annotation in point clouds, by reformulating the keypoint extraction as a regression problem of the distance between the keypoints and the rest of the point cloud. We use the distance on the point cloud manifold mapped into a radial basis function (RBF), which is then learned using an encoder-decoder architecture. Special consideration is given to the data augmentation specific to multi-depth-camera systems by considering noise over the extrinsic calibration and camera frame dropout. Additionally, we investigate computationally efficient non-rigid deformation methods that can be applied to animal point clouds. Our method is tested on data collected in the field, on moving beef cattle, with a calibrated system of multiple hardware-synchronised RGB-D cameras.

1065
RenderDiffusion: Image Diffusion for 3D Reconstruction, Inpainting and Generation
2022-11-17
Diffusion models currently achieve state-of-the-art performance for both conditional and unconditional image generation. However, so far, image diffusion models do not support tasks required for 3D understanding, such as view-consistent 3D generation or single-view object reconstruction. In this paper, we present RenderDiffusion, the first diffusion model for 3D generation and inference, trained using only monocular 2D supervision. Central to our method is a novel image denoising architecture that generates and renders an intermediate three-dimensional representation of a scene in each denoising step. This enforces a strong inductive structure within the diffusion process, providing a 3D consistent representation while only requiring 2D supervision. The resulting 3D representation can be rendered from any view. We evaluate RenderDiffusion on FFHQ, AFHQ, ShapeNet and CLEVR datasets, showing competitive performance for generation of 3D scenes and inference of 3D scenes from 2D images. Additionally, our diffusion-based approach allows us to use 2D inpainting to edit 3D scenes.

1071
Multi-task Learning for Camera Calibration
2022-11-22
For a number of tasks, such as 3D reconstruction, robotic interface, autonomous driving, etc., camera calibration is essential. In this study, we present a unique method for predicting intrinsic (principal point offset and focal length) and extrinsic (baseline, pitch, and translation) properties from a pair of images. We suggested a novel method where camera model equations are represented as a neural network in a multi-task learning framework, in contrast to existing methods, which build a comprehensive solution. By reconstructing the 3D points using a camera model neural network and then using the loss in reconstruction to obtain the camera specifications, this innovative camera projection loss (CPL) method allows us that the desired parameters should be estimated. As far as we are aware, our approach is the first one that uses an approach to multi-task learning that includes mathematical formulas in a framework for learning to estimate camera parameters to predict both the extrinsic and intrinsic parameters jointly. Additionally, we provided a new dataset named as CVGL Camera Calibration Dataset [1] which has been collected using the CARLA Simulator [2]. Actually, we show that our suggested strategy out performs both conventional methods and methods based on deep learning on 6 out of 10 parameters that were assessed using both real and synthetic data. Our code and generated dataset are available at https://github.com/thanif/Camera-Calibration-through-Camera-Projection-Loss.

1072
DP-NeRF: Deblurred Neural Radiance Field with Physical Scene Priors
2022-11-22
Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) has exhibited outstanding three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction quality via the novel view synthesis from multi-view images and paired calibrated camera parameters. However, previous NeRF-based systems have been demonstrated under strictly controlled settings, with little attention paid to less ideal scenarios, including with the presence of noise such as exposure, illumination changes, and blur. In particular, though blur frequently occurs in real situations, NeRF that can handle blurred images has received little attention. The few studies that have investigated NeRF for blurred images have not considered geometric and appearance consistency in 3D space, which is one of the most important factors in 3D reconstruction. This leads to inconsistency and the degradation of the perceptual quality of the constructed scene. Hence, this paper proposes a DP-NeRF, a novel clean NeRF framework for blurred images, which is constrained with two physical priors. These priors are derived from the actual blurring process during image acquisition by the camera. DP-NeRF proposes rigid blurring kernel to impose 3D consistency utilizing the physical priors and adaptive weight proposal to refine the color composition error in consideration of the relationship between depth and blur. We present extensive experimental results for synthetic and real scenes with two types of blur: camera motion blur and defocus blur. The results demonstrate that DP-NeRF successfully improves the perceptual quality of the constructed NeRF ensuring 3D geometric and appearance consistency. We further demonstrate the effectiveness of our model with comprehensive ablation analysis.

1073
Level-S$^2$fM: Structure from Motion on Neural Level Set of Implicit Surfaces
2022-11-22
This paper presents a neural incremental Structure-from-Motion (SfM) approach, Level-S$^2$fM, which estimates the camera poses and scene geometry from a set of uncalibrated images by learning coordinate MLPs for the implicit surfaces and the radiance fields from the established keypoint correspondences. Our novel formulation poses some new challenges due to inevitable two-view and few-view configurations in the incremental SfM pipeline, which complicates the optimization of coordinate MLPs for volumetric neural rendering with unknown camera poses. Nevertheless, we demonstrate that the strong inductive basis conveying in the 2D correspondences is promising to tackle those challenges by exploiting the relationship between the ray sampling schemes. Based on this, we revisit the pipeline of incremental SfM and renew the key components, including two-view geometry initialization, the camera poses registration, the 3D points triangulation, and Bundle Adjustment, with a fresh perspective based on neural implicit surfaces. By unifying the scene geometry in small MLP networks through coordinate MLPs, our Level-S$^2$fM treats the zero-level set of the implicit surface as an informative top-down regularization to manage the reconstructed 3D points, reject the outliers in correspondences via querying SDF, and refine the estimated geometries by NBA (Neural BA). Not only does our Level-S$^2$fM lead to promising results on camera pose estimation and scene geometry reconstruction, but it also shows a promising way for neural implicit rendering without knowing camera extrinsic beforehand.

1078
Perceive, Ground, Reason, and Act: A Benchmark for General-purpose Visual Representation
2022-11-28
Current computer vision models, unlike the human visual system, cannot yet achieve general-purpose visual understanding. Existing efforts to create a general vision model are limited in the scope of assessed tasks and offer no overarching framework to perform them holistically. We present a new comprehensive benchmark, General-purpose Visual Understanding Evaluation (G-VUE), covering the full spectrum of visual cognitive abilities with four functional domains $\unicode{x2014}$ Perceive, Ground, Reason, and Act. The four domains are embodied in 11 carefully curated tasks, from 3D reconstruction to visual reasoning and manipulation. Along with the benchmark, we provide a general encoder-decoder framework to allow for the evaluation of arbitrary visual representation on all 11 tasks. We evaluate various pre-trained visual representations with our framework and observe that (1) Transformer-based visual backbone generally outperforms CNN-based backbone on G-VUE, (2) visual representations from vision-language pre-training are superior to those with vision-only pre-training across visual tasks. With G-VUE, we provide a holistic evaluation standard to motivate research toward building general-purpose visual systems via obtaining more general-purpose visual representations.

1079
Fast-SNARF: A Fast Deformer for Articulated Neural Fields
2022-11-28
Neural fields have revolutionized the area of 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis of rigid scenes. A key challenge in making such methods applicable to articulated objects, such as the human body, is to model the deformation of 3D locations between the rest pose (a canonical space) and the deformed space. We propose a new articulation module for neural fields, Fast-SNARF, which finds accurate correspondences between canonical space and posed space via iterative root finding. Fast-SNARF is a drop-in replacement in functionality to our previous work, SNARF, while significantly improving its computational efficiency. We contribute several algorithmic and implementation improvements over SNARF, yielding a speed-up of $150\times$. These improvements include voxel-based correspondence search, pre-computing the linear blend skinning function, and an efficient software implementation with CUDA kernels. Fast-SNARF enables efficient and simultaneous optimization of shape and skinning weights given deformed observations without correspondences (e.g. 3D meshes). Because learning of deformation maps is a crucial component in many 3D human avatar methods and since Fast-SNARF provides a computationally efficient solution, we believe that this work represents a significant step towards the practical creation of 3D virtual humans.

1085
NeuralLift-360: Lifting An In-the-wild 2D Photo to A 3D Object with 360° Views
2022-11-29
Virtual reality and augmented reality (XR) bring increasing demand for 3D content. However, creating high-quality 3D content requires tedious work that a human expert must do. In this work, we study the challenging task of lifting a single image to a 3D object and, for the first time, demonstrate the ability to generate a plausible 3D object with 360{\deg} views that correspond well with the given reference image. By conditioning on the reference image, our model can fulfill the everlasting curiosity for synthesizing novel views of objects from images. Our technique sheds light on a promising direction of easing the workflows for 3D artists and XR designers. We propose a novel framework, dubbed NeuralLift-360, that utilizes a depth-aware neural radiance representation (NeRF) and learns to craft the scene guided by denoising diffusion models. By introducing a ranking loss, our NeuralLift-360 can be guided with rough depth estimation in the wild. We also adopt a CLIP-guided sampling strategy for the diffusion prior to provide coherent guidance. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our NeuralLift-360 significantly outperforms existing state-of-the-art baselines. Project page: https://vita-group.github.io/NeuralLift-360/

1087
NOPE-SAC: Neural One-Plane RANSAC for Sparse-View Planar 3D Reconstruction
2022-11-30
This paper studies the challenging two-view 3D reconstruction in a rigorous sparse-view configuration, which is suffering from insufficient correspondences in the input image pairs for camera pose estimation. We present a novel Neural One-PlanE RANSAC framework (termed NOPE-SAC in short) that exerts excellent capability to learn one-plane pose hypotheses from 3D plane correspondences. Building on the top of a siamese plane detection network, our NOPE-SAC first generates putative plane correspondences with a coarse initial pose. It then feeds the learned 3D plane parameters of correspondences into shared MLPs to estimate the one-plane camera pose hypotheses, which are subsequently reweighed in a RANSAC manner to obtain the final camera pose. Because the neural one-plane pose minimizes the number of plane correspondences for adaptive pose hypotheses generation, it enables stable pose voting and reliable pose refinement in a few plane correspondences for the sparse-view inputs. In the experiments, we demonstrate that our NOPE-SAC significantly improves the camera pose estimation for the two-view inputs with severe viewpoint changes, setting several new state-of-the-art performances on two challenging benchmarks, i.e., MatterPort3D and ScanNet, for sparse-view 3D reconstruction. The source code is released at https://github.com/IceTTTb/NopeSAC for reproducible research.

1092
SceneRF: Self-Supervised Monocular 3D Scene Reconstruction with Radiance Fields
2022-12-05
3D reconstruction from 2D image was extensively studied, training with depth supervision. To relax the dependence to costly-acquired datasets, we propose SceneRF, a self-supervised monocular scene reconstruction method using only posed image sequences for training. Fueled by the recent progress in neural radiance fields (NeRF) we optimize a radiance field though with explicit depth optimization and a novel probabilistic sampling strategy to efficiently handle large scenes. At inference, a single input image suffices to hallucinate novel depth views which are fused together to obtain 3D scene reconstruction. Thorough experiments demonstrate that we outperform all recent baselines for novel depth views synthesis and scene reconstruction, on indoor BundleFusion and outdoor SemanticKITTI. Our code is available at https://astra-vision.github.io/SceneRF.

1096
NeRDi: Single-View NeRF Synthesis with Language-Guided Diffusion as General Image Priors
2022-12-06
2D-to-3D reconstruction is an ill-posed problem, yet humans are good at solving this problem due to their prior knowledge of the 3D world developed over years. Driven by this observation, we propose NeRDi, a single-view NeRF synthesis framework with general image priors from 2D diffusion models. Formulating single-view reconstruction as an image-conditioned 3D generation problem, we optimize the NeRF representations by minimizing a diffusion loss on its arbitrary view renderings with a pretrained image diffusion model under the input-view constraint. We leverage off-the-shelf vision-language models and introduce a two-section language guidance as conditioning inputs to the diffusion model. This is essentially helpful for improving multiview content coherence as it narrows down the general image prior conditioned on the semantic and visual features of the single-view input image. Additionally, we introduce a geometric loss based on estimated depth maps to regularize the underlying 3D geometry of the NeRF. Experimental results on the DTU MVS dataset show that our method can synthesize novel views with higher quality even compared to existing methods trained on this dataset. We also demonstrate our generalizability in zero-shot NeRF synthesis for in-the-wild images.

1097
SDFusion: Multimodal 3D Shape Completion, Reconstruction, and Generation
2022-12-08
In this work, we present a novel framework built to simplify 3D asset generation for amateur users. To enable interactive generation, our method supports a variety of input modalities that can be easily provided by a human, including images, text, partially observed shapes and combinations of these, further allowing to adjust the strength of each input. At the core of our approach is an encoder-decoder, compressing 3D shapes into a compact latent representation, upon which a diffusion model is learned. To enable a variety of multi-modal inputs, we employ task-specific encoders with dropout followed by a cross-attention mechanism. Due to its flexibility, our model naturally supports a variety of tasks, outperforming prior works on shape completion, image-based 3D reconstruction, and text-to-3D. Most interestingly, our model can combine all these tasks into one swiss-army-knife tool, enabling the user to perform shape generation using incomplete shapes, images, and textual descriptions at the same time, providing the relative weights for each input and facilitating interactivity. Despite our approach being shape-only, we further show an efficient method to texture the generated shape using large-scale text-to-image models.

1102
Shared Coupling-bridge for Weakly Supervised Local Feature Learning
2022-12-14
Sparse local feature extraction is usually believed to be of important significance in typical vision tasks such as simultaneous localization and mapping, image matching and 3D reconstruction. At present, it still has some deficiencies needing further improvement, mainly including the discrimination power of extracted local descriptors, the localization accuracy of detected keypoints, and the efficiency of local feature learning. This paper focuses on promoting the currently popular sparse local feature learning with camera pose supervision. Therefore, it pertinently proposes a Shared Coupling-bridge scheme with four light-weight yet effective improvements for weakly-supervised local feature (SCFeat) learning. It mainly contains: i) the \emph{Feature-Fusion-ResUNet Backbone} (F2R-Backbone) for local descriptors learning, ii) a shared coupling-bridge normalization to improve the decoupling training of description network and detection network, iii) an improved detection network with peakiness measurement to detect keypoints and iv) the fundamental matrix error as a reward factor to further optimize feature detection training. Extensive experiments prove that our SCFeat improvement is effective. It could often obtain a state-of-the-art performance on classic image matching and visual localization. In terms of 3D reconstruction, it could still achieve competitive results. For sharing and communication, our source codes are available at https://github.com/sunjiayuanro/SCFeat.git.

1112
NeMo: 3D Neural Motion Fields from Multiple Video Instances of the Same Action
2022-12-28
The task of reconstructing 3D human motion has wideranging applications. The gold standard Motion capture (MoCap) systems are accurate but inaccessible to the general public due to their cost, hardware and space constraints. In contrast, monocular human mesh recovery (HMR) methods are much more accessible than MoCap as they take single-view videos as inputs. Replacing the multi-view Mo- Cap systems with a monocular HMR method would break the current barriers to collecting accurate 3D motion thus making exciting applications like motion analysis and motiondriven animation accessible to the general public. However, performance of existing HMR methods degrade when the video contains challenging and dynamic motion that is not in existing MoCap datasets used for training. This reduces its appeal as dynamic motion is frequently the target in 3D motion recovery in the aforementioned applications. Our study aims to bridge the gap between monocular HMR and multi-view MoCap systems by leveraging information shared across multiple video instances of the same action. We introduce the Neural Motion (NeMo) field. It is optimized to represent the underlying 3D motions across a set of videos of the same action. Empirically, we show that NeMo can recover 3D motion in sports using videos from the Penn Action dataset, where NeMo outperforms existing HMR methods in terms of 2D keypoint detection. To further validate NeMo using 3D metrics, we collected a small MoCap dataset mimicking actions in Penn Action,and show that NeMo achieves better 3D reconstruction compared to various baselines.

1120
Multiview Compressive Coding for 3D Reconstruction
2023-01-19
A central goal of visual recognition is to understand objects and scenes from a single image. 2D recognition has witnessed tremendous progress thanks to large-scale learning and general-purpose representations. Comparatively, 3D poses new challenges stemming from occlusions not depicted in the image. Prior works try to overcome these by inferring from multiple views or rely on scarce CAD models and category-specific priors which hinder scaling to novel settings. In this work, we explore single-view 3D reconstruction by learning generalizable representations inspired by advances in self-supervised learning. We introduce a simple framework that operates on 3D points of single objects or whole scenes coupled with category-agnostic large-scale training from diverse RGB-D videos. Our model, Multiview Compressive Coding (MCC), learns to compress the input appearance and geometry to predict the 3D structure by querying a 3D-aware decoder. MCC's generality and efficiency allow it to learn from large-scale and diverse data sources with strong generalization to novel objects imagined by DALL$\cdot$E 2 or captured in-the-wild with an iPhone.

1127
3D genome reconstruction from partially phased Hi-C data
2023-01-27
The 3-dimensional (3D) structure of the genome is of significant importance for many cellular processes. In this paper, we study the problem of reconstructing the 3D structure of chromosomes from Hi-C data of diploid organisms, which poses additional challenges compared to the better-studied haploid setting. With the help of techniques from algebraic geometry, we prove that a small amount of phased data is sufficient to ensure finite identifiability, both for noiseless and noisy data. In the light of these results, we propose a new 3D reconstruction method based on semidefinite programming, paired with numerical algebraic geometry and local optimization. The performance of this method is tested on several simulated datasets under different noise levels and with different amounts of phased data. We also apply it to a real dataset from mouse X chromosomes, and we are then able to recover previously known structural features.

1135
UAVStereo: A Multiple Resolution Dataset for Stereo Matching in UAV Scenarios
2023-02-20
Stereo matching is a fundamental task for 3D scene reconstruction. Recently, deep learning based methods have proven effective on some benchmark datasets, such as KITTI and Scene Flow. UAVs (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles) are commonly utilized for surface observation, and their captured images are frequently used for detailed 3D reconstruction due to high resolution and low-altitude acquisition. At present, the mainstream supervised learning network requires a significant amount of training data with ground-truth labels to learn model parameters. However, due to the scarcity of UAV stereo matching datasets, the learning-based network cannot be applied to UAV images. To facilitate further research, this paper proposes a novel pipeline to generate accurate and dense disparity maps using detailed meshes reconstructed by UAV images and LiDAR point clouds. Through the proposed pipeline, this paper constructs a multi-resolution UAV scenario dataset, called UAVStereo, with over 34k stereo image pairs covering 3 typical scenes. As far as we know, UAVStereo is the first stereo matching dataset of UAV low-altitude scenarios. The dataset includes synthetic and real stereo pairs to enable generalization from the synthetic domain to the real domain. Furthermore, our UAVStereo dataset provides multi-resolution and multi-scene images pairs to accommodate a variety of sensors and environments. In this paper, we evaluate traditional and state-of-the-art deep learning methods, highlighting their limitations in addressing challenges in UAV scenarios and offering suggestions for future research. The dataset is available at https://github.com/rebecca0011/UAVStereo.git

1138
RealFusion: 360° Reconstruction of Any Object from a Single Image
2023-02-21
We consider the problem of reconstructing a full 360{\deg} photographic model of an object from a single image of it. We do so by fitting a neural radiance field to the image, but find this problem to be severely ill-posed. We thus take an off-the-self conditional image generator based on diffusion and engineer a prompt that encourages it to "dream up" novel views of the object. Using an approach inspired by DreamFields and DreamFusion, we fuse the given input view, the conditional prior, and other regularizers in a final, consistent reconstruction. We demonstrate state-of-the-art reconstruction results on benchmark images when compared to prior methods for monocular 3D reconstruction of objects. Qualitatively, our reconstructions provide a faithful match of the input view and a plausible extrapolation of its appearance and 3D shape, including to the side of the object not visible in the image.

1143
SUPS: A Simulated Underground Parking Scenario Dataset for Autonomous Driving
2023-02-25
Automatic underground parking has attracted considerable attention as the scope of autonomous driving expands. The auto-vehicle is supposed to obtain the environmental information, track its location, and build a reliable map of the scenario. Mainstream solutions consist of well-trained neural networks and simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) methods, which need numerous carefully labeled images and multiple sensor estimations. However, there is a lack of underground parking scenario datasets with multiple sensors and well-labeled images that support both SLAM tasks and perception tasks, such as semantic segmentation and parking slot detection. In this paper, we present SUPS, a simulated dataset for underground automatic parking, which supports multiple tasks with multiple sensors and multiple semantic labels aligned with successive images according to timestamps. We intend to cover the defect of existing datasets with the variability of environments and the diversity and accessibility of sensors in the virtual scene. Specifically, the dataset records frames from four surrounding fisheye cameras, two forward pinhole cameras, a depth camera, and data from LiDAR, inertial measurement unit (IMU), GNSS. Pixel-level semantic labels are provided for objects, especially ground signs such as arrows, parking lines, lanes, and speed bumps. Perception, 3D reconstruction, depth estimation, and SLAM, and other relative tasks are supported by our dataset. We also evaluate the state-of-the-art SLAM algorithms and perception models on our dataset. Finally, we open source our virtual 3D scene built based on Unity Engine and release our dataset at https://github.com/jarvishou829/SUPS.

1150
MobileBrick: Building LEGO for 3D Reconstruction on Mobile Devices
2023-03-03
High-quality 3D ground-truth shapes are critical for 3D object reconstruction evaluation. However, it is difficult to create a replica of an object in reality, and even 3D reconstructions generated by 3D scanners have artefacts that cause biases in evaluation. To address this issue, we introduce a novel multi-view RGBD dataset captured using a mobile device, which includes highly precise 3D ground-truth annotations for 153 object models featuring a diverse set of 3D structures. We obtain precise 3D ground-truth shape without relying on high-end 3D scanners by utilising LEGO models with known geometry as the 3D structures for image capture. The distinct data modality offered by high-resolution RGB images and low-resolution depth maps captured on a mobile device, when combined with precise 3D geometry annotations, presents a unique opportunity for future research on high-fidelity 3D reconstruction. Furthermore, we evaluate a range of 3D reconstruction algorithms on the proposed dataset. Project page: http://code.active.vision/MobileBrick/

1161
Zero-1-to-3: Zero-shot One Image to 3D Object
2023-03-20
We introduce Zero-1-to-3, a framework for changing the camera viewpoint of an object given just a single RGB image. To perform novel view synthesis in this under-constrained setting, we capitalize on the geometric priors that large-scale diffusion models learn about natural images. Our conditional diffusion model uses a synthetic dataset to learn controls of the relative camera viewpoint, which allow new images to be generated of the same object under a specified camera transformation. Even though it is trained on a synthetic dataset, our model retains a strong zero-shot generalization ability to out-of-distribution datasets as well as in-the-wild images, including impressionist paintings. Our viewpoint-conditioned diffusion approach can further be used for the task of 3D reconstruction from a single image. Qualitative and quantitative experiments show that our method significantly outperforms state-of-the-art single-view 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis models by leveraging Internet-scale pre-training.

1168
WildLight: In-the-wild Inverse Rendering with a Flashlight
2023-03-24
This paper proposes a practical photometric solution for the challenging problem of in-the-wild inverse rendering under unknown ambient lighting. Our system recovers scene geometry and reflectance using only multi-view images captured by a smartphone. The key idea is to exploit smartphone's built-in flashlight as a minimally controlled light source, and decompose image intensities into two photometric components -- a static appearance corresponds to ambient flux, plus a dynamic reflection induced by the moving flashlight. Our method does not require flash/non-flash images to be captured in pairs. Building on the success of neural light fields, we use an off-the-shelf method to capture the ambient reflections, while the flashlight component enables physically accurate photometric constraints to decouple reflectance and illumination. Compared to existing inverse rendering methods, our setup is applicable to non-darkroom environments yet sidesteps the inherent difficulties of explicit solving ambient reflections. We demonstrate by extensive experiments that our method is easy to implement, casual to set up, and consistently outperforms existing in-the-wild inverse rendering techniques. Finally, our neural reconstruction can be easily exported to PBR textured triangle mesh ready for industrial renderers.

1169
Deformable Model Driven Neural Rendering for High-fidelity 3D Reconstruction of Human Heads Under Low-View Settings
2023-03-24
We propose a robust method for learning neural implicit functions that can reconstruct 3D human heads with high-fidelity geometry from low-view inputs. We represent 3D human heads as the zero level-set of a composed signed distance field that consists of a smooth template, a non-rigid deformation, and a high-frequency displacement field. The template represents identity-independent and expression-neutral features, which is trained on multiple individuals, along with the deformation network. The displacement field encodes identity-dependent geometric details, trained for each specific individual. We train our network in two stages using a coarse-to-fine strategy without 3D supervision. Our experiments demonstrate that the geometry decomposition and two-stage training make our method robust and our model outperforms existing methods in terms of reconstruction accuracy and novel view synthesis under low-view settings. Additionally, the pre-trained template serves a good initialization for our model to adapt to unseen individuals.

1170
Seeing Through the Glass: Neural 3D Reconstruction of Object Inside a Transparent Container
2023-03-24
In this paper, we define a new problem of recovering the 3D geometry of an object confined in a transparent enclosure. We also propose a novel method for solving this challenging problem. Transparent enclosures pose challenges of multiple light reflections and refractions at the interface between different propagation media e.g. air or glass. These multiple reflections and refractions cause serious image distortions which invalidate the single viewpoint assumption. Hence the 3D geometry of such objects cannot be reliably reconstructed using existing methods, such as traditional structure from motion or modern neural reconstruction methods. We solve this problem by explicitly modeling the scene as two distinct sub-spaces, inside and outside the transparent enclosure. We use an existing neural reconstruction method (NeuS) that implicitly represents the geometry and appearance of the inner subspace. In order to account for complex light interactions, we develop a hybrid rendering strategy that combines volume rendering with ray tracing. We then recover the underlying geometry and appearance of the model by minimizing the difference between the real and hybrid rendered images. We evaluate our method on both synthetic and real data. Experiment results show that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods. Codes and data will be available at https://github.com/hirotong/ReNeuS

1171
Zolly: Zoom Focal Length Correctly for Perspective-Distorted Human Mesh Reconstruction
2023-03-24
As it is hard to calibrate single-view RGB images in the wild, existing 3D human mesh reconstruction (3DHMR) methods either use a constant large focal length or estimate one based on the background environment context, which can not tackle the problem of the torso, limb, hand or face distortion caused by perspective camera projection when the camera is close to the human body. The naive focal length assumptions can harm this task with the incorrectly formulated projection matrices. To solve this, we propose Zolly, the first 3DHMR method focusing on perspective-distorted images. Our approach begins with analysing the reason for perspective distortion, which we find is mainly caused by the relative location of the human body to the camera center. We propose a new camera model and a novel 2D representation, termed distortion image, which describes the 2D dense distortion scale of the human body. We then estimate the distance from distortion scale features rather than environment context features. Afterwards, we integrate the distortion feature with image features to reconstruct the body mesh. To formulate the correct projection matrix and locate the human body position, we simultaneously use perspective and weak-perspective projection loss. Since existing datasets could not handle this task, we propose the first synthetic dataset PDHuman and extend two real-world datasets tailored for this task, all containing perspective-distorted human images. Extensive experiments show that Zolly outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods on both perspective-distorted datasets and the standard benchmark (3DPW).

1176
PAniC-3D: Stylized Single-view 3D Reconstruction from Portraits of Anime Characters
2023-03-25
We propose PAniC-3D, a system to reconstruct stylized 3D character heads directly from illustrated (p)ortraits of (ani)me (c)haracters. Our anime-style domain poses unique challenges to single-view reconstruction; compared to natural images of human heads, character portrait illustrations have hair and accessories with more complex and diverse geometry, and are shaded with non-photorealistic contour lines. In addition, there is a lack of both 3D model and portrait illustration data suitable to train and evaluate this ambiguous stylized reconstruction task. Facing these challenges, our proposed PAniC-3D architecture crosses the illustration-to-3D domain gap with a line-filling model, and represents sophisticated geometries with a volumetric radiance field. We train our system with two large new datasets (11.2k Vroid 3D models, 1k Vtuber portrait illustrations), and evaluate on a novel AnimeRecon benchmark of illustration-to-3D pairs. PAniC-3D significantly outperforms baseline methods, and provides data to establish the task of stylized reconstruction from portrait illustrations.

1178
Multi-View Azimuth Stereo via Tangent Space Consistency
2023-03-29
We present a method for 3D reconstruction only using calibrated multi-view surface azimuth maps. Our method, multi-view azimuth stereo, is effective for textureless or specular surfaces, which are difficult for conventional multi-view stereo methods. We introduce the concept of tangent space consistency: Multi-view azimuth observations of a surface point should be lifted to the same tangent space. Leveraging this consistency, we recover the shape by optimizing a neural implicit surface representation. Our method harnesses the robust azimuth estimation capabilities of photometric stereo methods or polarization imaging while bypassing potentially complex zenith angle estimation. Experiments using azimuth maps from various sources validate the accurate shape recovery with our method, even without zenith angles.

1183
FineRecon: Depth-aware Feed-forward Network for Detailed 3D Reconstruction
2023-04-04
Recent works on 3D reconstruction from posed images have demonstrated that direct inference of scene-level 3D geometry without iterative optimization is feasible using a deep neural network, showing remarkable promise and high efficiency. However, the reconstructed geometries, typically represented as a 3D truncated signed distance function (TSDF), are often coarse without fine geometric details. To address this problem, we propose three effective solutions for improving the fidelity of inference-based 3D reconstructions. We first present a resolution-agnostic TSDF supervision strategy to provide the network with a more accurate learning signal during training, avoiding the pitfalls of TSDF interpolation seen in previous work. We then introduce a depth guidance strategy using multi-view depth estimates to enhance the scene representation and recover more accurate surfaces. Finally, we develop a novel architecture for the final layers of the network, conditioning the output TSDF prediction on high-resolution image features in addition to coarse voxel features, enabling sharper reconstruction of fine details. Our method produces smooth and highly accurate reconstructions, showing significant improvements across multiple depth and 3D reconstruction metrics.

1190
ALIKED: A Lighter Keypoint and Descriptor Extraction Network via Deformable Transformation
2023-04-07
Image keypoints and descriptors play a crucial role in many visual measurement tasks. In recent years, deep neural networks have been widely used to improve the performance of keypoint and descriptor extraction. However, the conventional convolution operations do not provide the geometric invariance required for the descriptor. To address this issue, we propose the Sparse Deformable Descriptor Head (SDDH), which learns the deformable positions of supporting features for each keypoint and constructs deformable descriptors. Furthermore, SDDH extracts descriptors at sparse keypoints instead of a dense descriptor map, which enables efficient extraction of descriptors with strong expressiveness. In addition, we relax the neural reprojection error (NRE) loss from dense to sparse to train the extracted sparse descriptors. Experimental results show that the proposed network is both efficient and powerful in various visual measurement tasks, including image matching, 3D reconstruction, and visual relocalization.

1192
Evaluate Geometry of Radiance Field with Low-frequency Color Prior
2023-04-10
Radiance field is an effective representation of 3D scenes, which has been widely adopted in novel-view synthesis and 3D reconstruction. It is still an open and challenging problem to evaluate the geometry, i.e., the density field, as the ground-truth is almost impossible to be obtained. One alternative indirect solution is to transform the density field into a point-cloud and compute its Chamfer Distance with the scanned ground-truth. However, many widely-used datasets have no point-cloud ground-truth since the scanning process along with the equipment is expensive and complicated. To this end, we propose a novel metric, named Inverse Mean Residual Color (IMRC), which can evaluate the geometry only with the observation images. Our key insight is that the better the geometry is, the lower-frequency the computed color field is. From this insight, given reconstructed density field and the observation images, we design a closed-form method to approximate the color field with low-frequency spherical harmonics and compute the inverse mean residual color. Then the higher the IMRC, the better the geometry. Qualitative and quantitative experimental results verify the effectiveness of our proposed IMRC metric. We also benchmark several state-of-the-art methods using IMRC to promote future related research.

1197
EvAC3D: From Event-based Apparent Contours to 3D Models via Continuous Visual Hulls
2023-04-11
3D reconstruction from multiple views is a successful computer vision field with multiple deployments in applications. State of the art is based on traditional RGB frames that enable optimization of photo-consistency cross views. In this paper, we study the problem of 3D reconstruction from event-cameras, motivated by the advantages of event-based cameras in terms of low power and latency as well as by the biological evidence that eyes in nature capture the same data and still perceive well 3D shape. The foundation of our hypothesis that 3D reconstruction is feasible using events lies in the information contained in the occluding contours and in the continuous scene acquisition with events. We propose Apparent Contour Events (ACE), a novel event-based representation that defines the geometry of the apparent contour of an object. We represent ACE by a spatially and temporally continuous implicit function defined in the event x-y-t space. Furthermore, we design a novel continuous Voxel Carving algorithm enabled by the high temporal resolution of the Apparent Contour Events. To evaluate the performance of the method, we collect MOEC-3D, a 3D event dataset of a set of common real-world objects. We demonstrate the ability of EvAC3D to reconstruct high-fidelity mesh surfaces from real event sequences while allowing the refinement of the 3D reconstruction for each individual event.

1200
SiLK -- Simple Learned Keypoints
2023-04-12
Keypoint detection & descriptors are foundational tech-nologies for computer vision tasks like image matching, 3D reconstruction and visual odometry. Hand-engineered methods like Harris corners, SIFT, and HOG descriptors have been used for decades; more recently, there has been a trend to introduce learning in an attempt to improve keypoint detectors. On inspection however, the results are difficult to interpret; recent learning-based methods employ a vast diversity of experimental setups and design choices: empirical results are often reported using different backbones, protocols, datasets, types of supervisions or tasks. Since these differences are often coupled together, it raises a natural question on what makes a good learned keypoint detector. In this work, we revisit the design of existing keypoint detectors by deconstructing their methodologies and identifying the key components. We re-design each component from first-principle and propose Simple Learned Keypoints (SiLK) that is fully-differentiable, lightweight, and flexible. Despite its simplicity, SiLK advances new state-of-the-art on Detection Repeatability and Homography Estimation tasks on HPatches and 3D Point-Cloud Registration task on ScanNet, and achieves competitive performance to state-of-the-art on camera pose estimation in 2022 Image Matching Challenge and ScanNet.

1201
Learning How To Robustly Estimate Camera Pose in Endoscopic Videos
2023-04-17
Purpose: Surgical scene understanding plays a critical role in the technology stack of tomorrow's intervention-assisting systems in endoscopic surgeries. For this, tracking the endoscope pose is a key component, but remains challenging due to illumination conditions, deforming tissues and the breathing motion of organs. Method: We propose a solution for stereo endoscopes that estimates depth and optical flow to minimize two geometric losses for camera pose estimation. Most importantly, we introduce two learned adaptive per-pixel weight mappings that balance contributions according to the input image content. To do so, we train a Deep Declarative Network to take advantage of the expressiveness of deep-learning and the robustness of a novel geometric-based optimization approach. We validate our approach on the publicly available SCARED dataset and introduce a new in-vivo dataset, StereoMIS, which includes a wider spectrum of typically observed surgical settings. Results: Our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods on average and more importantly, in difficult scenarios where tissue deformations and breathing motion are visible. We observed that our proposed weight mappings attenuate the contribution of pixels on ambiguous regions of the images, such as deforming tissues. Conclusion: We demonstrate the effectiveness of our solution to robustly estimate the camera pose in challenging endoscopic surgical scenes. Our contributions can be used to improve related tasks like simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) or 3D reconstruction, therefore advancing surgical scene understanding in minimally-invasive surgery.

1207
A geometry-aware deep network for depth estimation in monocular endoscopy
2023-04-20
Monocular depth estimation is critical for endoscopists to perform spatial perception and 3D navigation of surgical sites. However, most of the existing methods ignore the important geometric structural consistency, which inevitably leads to performance degradation and distortion of 3D reconstruction. To address this issue, we introduce a gradient loss to penalize edge fluctuations ambiguous around stepped edge structures and a normal loss to explicitly express the sensitivity to frequently small structures, and propose a geometric consistency loss to spreads the spatial information across the sample grids to constrain the global geometric anatomy structures. In addition, we develop a synthetic RGB-Depth dataset that captures the anatomical structures under reflections and illumination variations. The proposed method is extensively validated across different datasets and clinical images and achieves mean RMSE values of 0.066 (stomach), 0.029 (small intestine), and 0.139 (colon) on the EndoSLAM dataset. The generalizability of the proposed method achieves mean RMSE values of 12.604 (T1-L1), 9.930 (T2-L2), and 13.893 (T3-L3) on the ColonDepth dataset. The experimental results show that our method exceeds previous state-of-the-art competitors and generates more consistent depth maps and reasonable anatomical structures. The quality of intraoperative 3D structure perception from endoscopic videos of the proposed method meets the accuracy requirements of video-CT registration algorithms for endoscopic navigation. The dataset and the source code will be available at https://github.com/YYM-SIA/LINGMI-MR.

1208
Tetra-NeRF: Representing Neural Radiance Fields Using Tetrahedra
2023-04-19
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) are a very recent and very popular approach for the problems of novel view synthesis and 3D reconstruction. A popular scene representation used by NeRFs is to combine a uniform, voxel-based subdivision of the scene with an MLP. Based on the observation that a (sparse) point cloud of the scene is often available, this paper proposes to use an adaptive representation based on tetrahedra obtained by the Delaunay triangulation instead of the uniform subdivision or point-based representations. We show that such a representation enables efficient training and leads to state-of-the-art results. Our approach elegantly combines concepts from 3D geometry processing, triangle-based rendering, and modern neural radiance fields. Compared to voxel-based representations, ours provides more detail around parts of the scene likely to be close to the surface. Compared to point-based representations, our approach achieves better performance.

1209
Anything-3D: Towards Single-view Anything Reconstruction in the Wild
2023-04-19
3D reconstruction from a single-RGB image in unconstrained real-world scenarios presents numerous challenges due to the inherent diversity and complexity of objects and environments. In this paper, we introduce Anything-3D, a methodical framework that ingeniously combines a series of visual-language models and the Segment-Anything object segmentation model to elevate objects to 3D, yielding a reliable and versatile system for single-view conditioned 3D reconstruction task. Our approach employs a BLIP model to generate textural descriptions, utilizes the Segment-Anything model for the effective extraction of objects of interest, and leverages a text-to-image diffusion model to lift object into a neural radiance field. Demonstrating its ability to produce accurate and detailed 3D reconstructions for a wide array of objects, \emph{Anything-3D\footnotemark[2]} shows promise in addressing the limitations of existing methodologies. Through comprehensive experiments and evaluations on various datasets, we showcase the merits of our approach, underscoring its potential to contribute meaningfully to the field of 3D reconstruction. Demos and code will be available at \href{https://github.com/Anything-of-anything/Anything-3D}{https://github.com/Anything-of-anything/Anything-3D}.

1220
UHRNet: A Deep Learning-Based Method for Accurate 3D Reconstruction from a Single Fringe-Pattern
2023-04-23
The quick and accurate retrieval of an object height from a single fringe pattern in Fringe Projection Profilometry has been a topic of ongoing research. While a single shot fringe to depth CNN based method can restore height map directly from a single pattern, its accuracy is currently inferior to the traditional phase shifting technique. To improve this method's accuracy, we propose using a U shaped High resolution Network (UHRNet). The network uses UNet encoding and decoding structure as backbone, with Multi-Level convolution Block and High resolution Fusion Block applied to extract local features and global features. We also designed a compound loss function by combining Structural Similarity Index Measure Loss (SSIMLoss) function and chunked L2 loss function to improve 3D reconstruction details.We conducted several experiments to demonstrate the validity and robustness of our proposed method. A few experiments have been conducted to demonstrate the validity and robustness of the proposed method, The average RMSE of 3D reconstruction by our method is only 0.443(mm). which is 41.13% of the UNet method and 33.31% of Wang et al hNet method. Our experimental results show that our proposed method can increase the accuracy of 3D reconstruction from a single fringe pattern.

1221
Non-Linear Phase-Retrieval Algorithms for X-ray Propagation-Based Phase-Contrast Tomography
2023-04-29
X-ray phase-contrast tomography (XPCT) is widely used for high-contrast 3D micron-scale imaging using nearly monochromatic X-rays at synchrotron beamlines. XPCT enables an order of magnitude improvement in image contrast of the reconstructed material interfaces with low X-ray absorption contrast. The dominant approaches to 3D reconstruction using XPCT relies on the use of phase-retrieval algorithms that make one or more limiting approximations for the experimental configuration and material properties. Since many experimental scenarios violate such approximations, the resulting reconstructions contain blur, artifacts, or other quantitative inaccuracies. Our solution to this problem is to formulate new iterative non-linear phase-retrieval (NLPR) algorithms that avoid such limiting approximations. Compared to the widely used state-of-the-art approaches, we show that our proposed algorithms result in sharp and quantitatively accurate reconstruction with reduced artifacts. Unlike existing NLPR algorithms, our approaches avoid the laborious manual tuning of regularization hyper-parameters while still achieving the stated goals. As an alternative to regularization, we propose explicit constraints on the material properties to constrain the solution space and solve the phase-retrieval problem. These constraints are easily user-configurable since they follow directly from the imaged object's dimensions and material properties.

1224
Robot Goes Fishing: Rapid, High-Resolution Biological Hotspot Mapping in Coral Reefs with Vision-Guided Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
2023-05-03
Coral reefs are fast-changing and complex ecosystems that are crucial to monitor and study. Biological hotspot detection can help coral reef managers prioritize limited resources for monitoring and intervention tasks. Here, we explore the use of autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) with cameras, coupled with visual detectors and photogrammetry, to map and identify these hotspots. This approach can provide high spatial resolution information in fast feedback cycles. To the best of our knowledge, we present one of the first attempts at using an AUV to gather visually-observed, fine-grain biological hotspot maps in concert with topography of a coral reefs. Our hotspot maps correlate with rugosity, an established proxy metric for coral reef biodiversity and abundance, as well as with our visual inspections of the 3D reconstruction. We also investigate issues of scaling this approach when applied to new reefs by using these visual detectors pre-trained on large public datasets.

1226
3DInvNet: A Deep Learning-Based 3D Ground-Penetrating Radar Data Inversion
2023-05-09
The reconstruction of the 3D permittivity map from ground-penetrating radar (GPR) data is of great importance for mapping subsurface environments and inspecting underground structural integrity. Traditional iterative 3D reconstruction algorithms suffer from strong non-linearity, ill-posedness, and high computational cost. To tackle these issues, a 3D deep learning scheme, called 3DInvNet, is proposed to reconstruct 3D permittivity maps from GPR C-scans. The proposed scheme leverages a prior 3D convolutional neural network with a feature attention mechanism to suppress the noise in the C-scans due to subsurface heterogeneous soil environments. Then a 3D U-shaped encoder-decoder network with multi-scale feature aggregation modules is designed to establish the optimal inverse mapping from the denoised C-scans to 3D permittivity maps. Furthermore, a three-step separate learning strategy is employed to pre-train and fine-tune the networks. The proposed scheme is applied to numerical simulation as well as real measurement data. The quantitative and qualitative results show the network capability, generalizability, and robustness in denoising GPR C-scans and reconstructing 3D permittivity maps of subsurface objects.

1242
ConsistentNeRF: Enhancing Neural Radiance Fields with 3D Consistency for Sparse View Synthesis
2023-05-18
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) has demonstrated remarkable 3D reconstruction capabilities with dense view images. However, its performance significantly deteriorates under sparse view settings. We observe that learning the 3D consistency of pixels among different views is crucial for improving reconstruction quality in such cases. In this paper, we propose ConsistentNeRF, a method that leverages depth information to regularize both multi-view and single-view 3D consistency among pixels. Specifically, ConsistentNeRF employs depth-derived geometry information and a depth-invariant loss to concentrate on pixels that exhibit 3D correspondence and maintain consistent depth relationships. Extensive experiments on recent representative works reveal that our approach can considerably enhance model performance in sparse view conditions, achieving improvements of up to 94% in PSNR, 76% in SSIM, and 31% in LPIPS compared to the vanilla baselines across various benchmarks, including DTU, NeRF Synthetic, and LLFF.

1247
ENRICH: Multi-purposE dataset for beNchmaRking In Computer vision and pHotogrammetry
2023-04-01
The availability of high-resolution data and accurate ground truth is essential to evaluate and compare methods and algorithms properly. Moreover, it is often difficult to acquire real data for a given application domain that is sufficiently representative and heterogeneous in terms of scene representation, acquisition conditions, point of view, etc. To overcome the limitations of available datasets, this paper presents a new synthetic, multi-purpose dataset called ENRICH for testing photogrammetric and computer vision algorithms. Compared to existing datasets, ENRICH offers higher resolution images rendered with different lighting conditions, camera orientations, scales, and fields of view. Specifically, ENRICH is composed of three sub-datasets: ENRICH-Aerial, ENRICH-Square, and ENRICH-Statue, each exhibiting different characteristics. We show the usefulness of the proposed dataset on several examples of photogrammetry and computer vision-related tasks such as: evaluation of hand-crafted and deep learning-based local features, effects of ground control points (GCPs) configuration on the 3D accuracy, and monocular depth estimation.

1254
BUOL: A Bottom-Up Framework with Occupancy-aware Lifting for Panoptic 3D Scene Reconstruction From A Single Image
2023-06-01
Understanding and modeling the 3D scene from a single image is a practical problem. A recent advance proposes a panoptic 3D scene reconstruction task that performs both 3D reconstruction and 3D panoptic segmentation from a single image. Although having made substantial progress, recent works only focus on top-down approaches that fill 2D instances into 3D voxels according to estimated depth, which hinders their performance by two ambiguities. (1) instance-channel ambiguity: The variable ids of instances in each scene lead to ambiguity during filling voxel channels with 2D information, confusing the following 3D refinement. (2) voxel-reconstruction ambiguity: 2D-to-3D lifting with estimated single view depth only propagates 2D information onto the surface of 3D regions, leading to ambiguity during the reconstruction of regions behind the frontal view surface. In this paper, we propose BUOL, a Bottom-Up framework with Occupancy-aware Lifting to address the two issues for panoptic 3D scene reconstruction from a single image. For instance-channel ambiguity, a bottom-up framework lifts 2D information to 3D voxels based on deterministic semantic assignments rather than arbitrary instance id assignments. The 3D voxels are then refined and grouped into 3D instances according to the predicted 2D instance centers. For voxel-reconstruction ambiguity, the estimated multi-plane occupancy is leveraged together with depth to fill the whole regions of things and stuff. Our method shows a tremendous performance advantage over state-of-the-art methods on synthetic dataset 3D-Front and real-world dataset Matterport3D. Code and models are available in https://github.com/chtsy/buol.

1258
Enhance-NeRF: Multiple Performance Evaluation for Neural Radiance Fields
2023-06-08
The quality of three-dimensional reconstruction is a key factor affecting the effectiveness of its application in areas such as virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) technologies. Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) can generate realistic images from any viewpoint. It simultaneously reconstructs the shape, lighting, and materials of objects, and without surface defects, which breaks down the barrier between virtuality and reality. The potential spatial correspondences displayed by NeRF between reconstructed scenes and real-world scenes offer a wide range of practical applications possibilities. Despite significant progress in 3D reconstruction since NeRF were introduced, there remains considerable room for exploration and experimentation. NeRF-based models are susceptible to interference issues caused by colored "fog" noise. Additionally, they frequently encounter instabilities and failures while attempting to reconstruct unbounded scenes. Moreover, the model takes a significant amount of time to converge, making it even more challenging to use in such scenarios. Our approach, coined Enhance-NeRF, which adopts joint color to balance low and high reflectivity objects display, utilizes a decoding architecture with prior knowledge to improve recognition, and employs multi-layer performance evaluation mechanisms to enhance learning capacity. It achieves reconstruction of outdoor scenes within one hour under single-card condition. Based on experimental results, Enhance-NeRF partially enhances fitness capability and provides some support to outdoor scene reconstruction. The Enhance-NeRF method can be used as a plug-and-play component, making it easy to integrate with other NeRF-based models. The code is available at: https://github.com/TANQIanQ/Enhance-NeRF

1262
3D reconstruction using Structure for Motion
2023-06-10
We are working towards 3D reconstruction of indoor spaces using a pair of HDR cameras in a stereo vision configuration mounted on an indoor mobile floor robot that captures various textures and spatial features as 2D images and this data is simultaneously utilized as a feed to our algorithm which will allow us to visualize the depth map.

1272
3D Reconstruction of Spherical Images based on Incremental Structure from Motion
2023-06-22
3D reconstruction plays an increasingly important role in modern photogrammetric systems. Conventional satellite or aerial-based remote sensing (RS) platforms can provide the necessary data sources for the 3D reconstruction of large-scale landforms and cities. Even with low-altitude UAVs (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles), 3D reconstruction in complicated situations, such as urban canyons and indoor scenes, is challenging due to the frequent tracking failures between camera frames and high data collection costs. Recently, spherical images have been extensively exploited due to the capability of recording surrounding environments from one camera exposure. Classical 3D reconstruction pipelines, however, cannot be used for spherical images. Besides, there exist few software packages for 3D reconstruction of spherical images. Based on the imaging geometry of spherical cameras, this study investigates the algorithms for the relative orientation using spherical correspondences, absolute orientation using 3D correspondences between scene and spherical points, and the cost functions for BA (bundle adjustment) optimization. In addition, an incremental SfM (Structure from Motion) workflow has been proposed for spherical images using the above-mentioned algorithms. The proposed solution is finally verified by using three spherical datasets captured by both consumer-grade and professional spherical cameras. The results demonstrate that the proposed SfM workflow can achieve the successful 3D reconstruction of complex scenes and provide useful clues for the implementation in open-source software packages. The source code of the designed SfM workflow would be made publicly available.

1273
LightGlue: Local Feature Matching at Light Speed
2023-06-23
We introduce LightGlue, a deep neural network that learns to match local features across images. We revisit multiple design decisions of SuperGlue, the state of the art in sparse matching, and derive simple but effective improvements. Cumulatively, they make LightGlue more efficient - in terms of both memory and computation, more accurate, and much easier to train. One key property is that LightGlue is adaptive to the difficulty of the problem: the inference is much faster on image pairs that are intuitively easy to match, for example because of a larger visual overlap or limited appearance change. This opens up exciting prospects for deploying deep matchers in latency-sensitive applications like 3D reconstruction. The code and trained models are publicly available at https://github.com/cvg/LightGlue.

1274
One-2-3-45: Any Single Image to 3D Mesh in 45 Seconds without Per-Shape Optimization
2023-06-29
Single image 3D reconstruction is an important but challenging task that requires extensive knowledge of our natural world. Many existing methods solve this problem by optimizing a neural radiance field under the guidance of 2D diffusion models but suffer from lengthy optimization time, 3D inconsistency results, and poor geometry. In this work, we propose a novel method that takes a single image of any object as input and generates a full 360-degree 3D textured mesh in a single feed-forward pass. Given a single image, we first use a view-conditioned 2D diffusion model, Zero123, to generate multi-view images for the input view, and then aim to lift them up to 3D space. Since traditional reconstruction methods struggle with inconsistent multi-view predictions, we build our 3D reconstruction module upon an SDF-based generalizable neural surface reconstruction method and propose several critical training strategies to enable the reconstruction of 360-degree meshes. Without costly optimizations, our method reconstructs 3D shapes in significantly less time than existing methods. Moreover, our method favors better geometry, generates more 3D consistent results, and adheres more closely to the input image. We evaluate our approach on both synthetic data and in-the-wild images and demonstrate its superiority in terms of both mesh quality and runtime. In addition, our approach can seamlessly support the text-to-3D task by integrating with off-the-shelf text-to-image diffusion models.

1286
Replay: Multi-modal Multi-view Acted Videos for Casual Holography
2023-07-22
We introduce Replay, a collection of multi-view, multi-modal videos of humans interacting socially. Each scene is filmed in high production quality, from different viewpoints with several static cameras, as well as wearable action cameras, and recorded with a large array of microphones at different positions in the room. Overall, the dataset contains over 4000 minutes of footage and over 7 million timestamped high-resolution frames annotated with camera poses and partially with foreground masks. The Replay dataset has many potential applications, such as novel-view synthesis, 3D reconstruction, novel-view acoustic synthesis, human body and face analysis, and training generative models. We provide a benchmark for training and evaluating novel-view synthesis, with two scenarios of different difficulty. Finally, we evaluate several baseline state-of-the-art methods on the new benchmark.

1287
Creative Birds: Self-Supervised Single-View 3D Style Transfer
2023-07-26
In this paper, we propose a novel method for single-view 3D style transfer that generates a unique 3D object with both shape and texture transfer. Our focus lies primarily on birds, a popular subject in 3D reconstruction, for which no existing single-view 3D transfer methods have been developed.The method we propose seeks to generate a 3D mesh shape and texture of a bird from two single-view images. To achieve this, we introduce a novel shape transfer generator that comprises a dual residual gated network (DRGNet), and a multi-layer perceptron (MLP). DRGNet extracts the features of source and target images using a shared coordinate gate unit, while the MLP generates spatial coordinates for building a 3D mesh. We also introduce a semantic UV texture transfer module that implements textural style transfer using semantic UV segmentation, which ensures consistency in the semantic meaning of the transferred regions. This module can be widely adapted to many existing approaches. Finally, our method constructs a novel 3D bird using a differentiable renderer. Experimental results on the CUB dataset verify that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on the single-view 3D style transfer task. Code is available in https://github.com/wrk226/creative_birds.

